THIS IS THE ANAPRA HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION AND WE'RE GLAD TO
HAVE YOU
, HUH?
YOU CAN CALL THE MEETING TO
ORDER.
SO I CALL THE MEETING ORDER AT
7:00 P.M. LOCAL.
LET'S START WITH THE ROLL CALL.
OK,
CHAIR STAMBAUGH HERE.
COMMISSIONER WINKLER HERE.
COMMISSIONER MEADOW'S HERE.
COMMISSIONER COHEN.
COMMISSIONER GARBER.
COMMISSIONER BOND HERE.
COMMISSIONER PUTZMEISTER
COUNCIL MEMBER GAGGIA ONE HERE
.
COUNCIL MEMBERS ALL HERE.
COMMISSIONER JACKSON OK, WE
HAVE A CALL.
YES, WE NEED PLEASE ADD YOUR
NAME AND BRING IT BACK
.
YES,
MEANINGS COVID CALL TO
ORDER AND WE'RE GOING TO START
WITH PUBLIC COMMENT.
LET ME SAY A FEW WORDS ABOUT
PUBLIC COMMENT.
WE DON'T USUALLY HAVE IT.
WE DON'T USUALLY HAVE THIS MANY
PEOPLE AND IT'S KIND OF NICE TO
SEE EVERYBODY WE HAVE ABOUT
ONCE THE FINISH LINE ONCE YOU
LOSE ONE YOU ONCE HE FINISHES
I'LL FIND OUT WE HAVE ABOUT I
DON'T KNOW FIFTEEN MAYBE PEOPLE
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK TODAY.
THAT'S AN AWFUL LOT FOR US AND
THAT'S VERY GOOD.
BUT WE WANT TO HEAR WE KNOW WE
KNOW WHAT YOU'RE HERE FOR.
IT'S IMPORTANT WE WANT TO
LISTEN CAREFULLY.
WE WANT TO REALLY UNDERSTAND
WHAT YOU WANT TO SAY.
WE'RE GOING TO GIVE YOU THREE
MINUTES.
WE'RE GOING TO ALLOW FOR ALL
THE PEOPLE WHO ARE SIGNED UP
WITH ANYBODY ELSE WHO HAS NOT
SIGNED UP WHO WANTS TO SPEAK TO
IT NOW WE'LL CALL PEOPLE IN THE
ORDER OF THE SIGN UP, OK, WE'RE
GOING TO DO THAT BECAUSE WE
CAN'T START DOING WE HAVE TO WE
HAVE TO OK, I'LL GRAB IT.
YOU YUP.
WE'RE JUST WAITING WHILE WE'RE
WHILE WE'RE WAITING.
LET ME JUST TALK TO YOU FOR A
MINUTE ABOUT WHAT WE WANT TO DO
HERE.
THREE MINUTES IS NOT AN AWFUL
LONG TIME.
WE UNDERSTAND THAT BUT IT'S A
GOOD START AND IF Y THINK
ABOUT WHAT YOU WANT TO SAY AND
MAKE SURE THAT IN THAT THREE
MINUTES YOU HAVE THE LEAST
KERNEL OF IT THAT WILL BE VERY
HELPFUL.
I PUT A BUSINESS CARD ON
EVERYBODY'S SEAT.
DID YOU ALL SEE IT?
YES.
GOOD LOOKING BEFORE YOU SIT
DOWN IS A GOOD IDEA THAT
BUSINESS CARD TO LET YOU KNOW
WHERE YOU CAN FIND US IF THERE
IS MORE YOU THINK WE NEED TO
KNOW SEND IT TO THE ADDRESS IF
YOU WANT TO KNOW MORE ABOUT THE
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION, THE
WEBSITE IS ON THAT BUSINESS
CARD IF YOU HAVE A COMPLAINT
ABOUT DISCRIMINATION OUR HUMAN
RIGHTS COMPLAINT PLEASE GO TO
THE WEBSITE.
YOU CAN YOU CAN SIGN UP THERE.
IT TELLS YOU HOW TO FILE A
COMPLAINT.
WHAT THE AUDIENCE TO SEE WHAT
ORDINANCE MIGHT BE VIOLATED.
WE'RE HERE TO HELP.
WE WANT TO TALK TO YOU.
WE WANT TO HELP YOU IF YOU HAVE
WE ARE WE ARE GOING TO WE'RE
ASKING FOR EMAILS FROM THE
PEOPLE WHO ARE TALKING SPEAKING
TODAY BECAUSE IF WE HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS WE WANT WE MIGHT WANT
TO TRY TO CONTACT YOU AND TALK
AND FOLLOW UP.
WE'RE GOING TO TRY SOMETHING
DIFFERENT TODAY.
I KNOW THAT THIS HAS BEEN DONE
RECENTLY OR MAYBE ANYWHERE WE
ARE GOING TO TRY TO LISTEN.
WE'VE GOT A VERY SERIOUS
SITUATION HERE.
WE WANT TO KNOW WHAT YOU'RE
THINKING, WHAT YOU KNOW, WHAT
WE SHOULD KNOW AND WE WANT
EVERYBODY TO HEAR IT AND THINK
ABOUT IT.
SO WE'RE GOING TO NOT WE WE'VE
GOT, YOU KNOW, AN AWFUL LOT
OF THINGS TO DO IN AN HOUR AND
A HALF OR WHENEVER AS LONG AS
THIS TAKES WE'LL DO IT AS LONG
AS IT TAKES WE'RE NOT GOING TO
RESPOND.
WE'RE GOING TO LISTEN WE'RE
GOING TO TAKE NOTES AND IF WE
HAVE QUESTIONS
NOW INSTEAD
OF INTERRUPTING IT NOW WE'RE
GOING TO ASK WE HAVE EMAIL AND
WE CAN ASK IF YOU HAVE
QUESTIONS YOU CAN ASK US TO
EMAIL THE PERSON.
WE ASK YOU NOT TO CLAP, NOT TO
JUST LISTEN TO OTHER PEOPLE.
JUST FIND OUT WHAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT, WHAT THE SIDES
ARE, WHAT THE ISSUES ARE.
WE'RE DEPENDING ON YOU TO TELL
US
WHAT ELSE DID I FORGET?
ANYTHING.
SO I START I THINK WE CAN START
THE WAS RIGHT THERE YOU HAVE
THE SIGN UP SHEET SO WE'VE GOT
TO CALL THE NAME OUR INTREPID
OFFICE ADMINISTRATOR KENNEDY IS
GOING TO BE TIMING US.
SHE WILL GIVE YOU A THIRTY
SECOND WARNING PLEASE PLEASE
HONOR THE TIME IT'LL HELP
EVERYBODY AND MAKE EVERYBODY
FEEL LIKE THEY'RE BEING HEARD
AND RESPECTED TO SOME BUT YES
WOULD YOU CAN YOU SHARE WHO WE
ARE AND WHO YOU ARE?
YOU'RE I DON'T KNOW FOLKSINESS
THAT YOU'RE THANK YOU.
I DIDN'T I MEAN YOU MIGHT
ASSUME YOU'RE THE MAYOR.
I'M NOT THE MAYOR.
THANK GOODNESS THIS IS A HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION.
WE'RE MADE UP OF NINE PEOPLE
WHO WHO WERE TAPPED OR
VOLUNTEERED TO BE ON THIS
COMMISSION WERE APPROVED BY THE
MAYOR AND THE CITY COUNCIL.
BUT WE ARE VOLUNTEERS.
WE DO NOT GET PAID.
WE DO NOT WE HAVE LIVES AND
FULL TIME JOBS OFTEN WE DON'T
HAVE A BIG STAFF.
WE HAVE INTREPID MISS CUMMINGS
HERE AND THAT'S WONDERFUL AND
WE DON'T AND WE WE'RE NOT FULL
TIME.
HOWEVER, WE ARE DEDICATED AND
REALLY A FINE TEAM AND WE CAN'T
DO IT A LOT BUT WE KNOW WHO CAN
OFTEN WE'LL TRY BUT LET'S SEE
HOW MUCH WE GET TOGETHER AND
HOW DOES THAT HELP?
OH, AND OUR MAIN OUR MAIN I
SHOULD SAY THIS OUR MAIN REASON
FOR BEING IS THE
NONDISCRIMINATION ORDINANCE
WHICH IS ON OUR WEBSITE.
IT PROTECTS PEOPLE FROM
DISCRIMINATION FOR A WHOLE LIST
OF THINGS BUT INCLUDING THIS
LIST OF THINGS THAT ARE ARE
CONSIDERED PROTECTED CLASSES.
THANK YOU.
I DON'T SPEAK IN PUBLIC.
I'M SORRY I GET NERVOUS BUT
INCLUDES RACE, ETHNICITY,
COUNTRY OF ORIGIN, POLITICAL
BELIEFS, GENDER, POLITICAL
BELIEFS.
ALSO I WHEN SOMEBODY IN ANN
ARBOR FEELS LIKE THEY HAVE BEEN
DISCRIMINATED AGAINST IN ANN
ARBOR WE CAN GET A COMPLAINT
AND WE CAN MEDIATE IT.
WE CAN WE CAN LOOK AT IT.
WE CAN FIND OUT WHAT IS THE
BEST WAY TO TO PROTECT A PERSON
WHO FEELS LIKE THEY'VE BEEN
DISCRIMINATED AND ACT ON IT.
DOES THAT HELP?
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR ASKING.
OK, OK SO LET US START AND
PLEASE EXCUSE THE WAY I
PRONOUNCE YOUR NAME RHEMA
HAUSSWOLFF PLEASE.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR FIVE I
CALL UPON THIS HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION AND CITY COUNCIL TO
PASS A RESOLUTION AND DEMANDING
AN UNCONDITIONAL CEASE FIRE IN
GAZA AND TO CREATE A TASK FORCE
INVESTIGATING THE ESCALATION
OF HARASSMENT AND HOSTILE
CLIMATE FOR PALESTINIANS AND
ALLIES.
CITY COUNCIL HAS STONEWALLED
AND FAILED CONSTITUENTS AND
RESIDENTS CLAMORING FOR A CEASE
FIRE RESOLUTION.
IT HAS REMAINED SILENT AND
HENCE COMPLICIT IN ISRAEL'S
GENOCIDE.
ITS RECALCITRANCE HAS
ENCOURAGED INTIMIDATION,
HARASSMENT AND AGGRESSION AT
THE HANDS OF PRIVATE ACTORS AND
PUBLIC SERVANTS.
ONE PALESTINIAN STUDENT WAS
CALLED A TERRORIST BY HIS APES
COUNCILOR A MIDDLE SCHOOL
TEACHER HAS FOR WEEKS SUFFERED
A HOSTILE WORK ENVIRONMENT AND
PROTESTED THAT YOU ALL HAVE
BEEN SURVEILLED, HARASSED,
ASSAULTED AND ARRESTED BY CITY
POLICE CONSTITUTING A VIOLATION
OF THE RIGHTS OF ASSEMBLY AND
SPEECH.
HOW CAN ISRAEL'S WAR
OF GENOCIDE THE BLOOD LUST
MURDER OF MORE THAN EIGHTEEN
THOUSAND PALESTINIANS INCLUDING
OVER SEVEN THOUSAND CHILDREN
AND THE ANNIHILATION
OF INSTITUTIONS AND
INFRASTRUCTURES?
HOW CAN ALL THIS BE DEFENSIBLE?
THE DEATH CERTIFICATE
OF NEWBORNS HAVE BEEN ISSUED
BEFORE THEIR BIRTH
CERTIFICATES.
FATHERS HAVE COLLECTED THE
BLOWN OFF LIMBS OF THEIR
CHILDREN AND CARRIED THEM IN
GARBAGE BAGS IN ORDER TO BURY
THEM IN ONE LAST ACT
OF PARENTAL LOVE AND DIGNITY.
NO HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION AND
CITY COUNCIL ABIDING BY THE
LAWS AND PRINCIPLES OF THE
UNIVERSALITY OF HUMAN RIGHTS
CAN JUSTIFY THIS INACTION AND
SILENCE AS WITNESSES TO THESE
HORRORS.
WHAT FIENDISH NUMBER OF DEAD
WILL FINALLY ACTIVATE YOUR
CONSCIENCES, SOFTEN YOUR HEARTS
AND GALVANIZE YOU INTO ACTION
OR TO ECHO THE US COLONIAL
SETTLER POLICY TOWARDS
INDIGENOUS PEOPLES FOR YOU IS A
GOOD PALESTINIAN A
DEAD PALESTINIAN.
IF YOU REFUSE TO LEAD THE WAY
THEN AT LEAST TRAIL THE CITIES
OF DETROIT AND IPSI THE UNITED
AUTO WORKERS, THE CHICAGO
TEACHERS UNION, THE CALIFORNIA
NURSES ASSOCIATION,
CONGRESSWOMAN DEBBIE DINGELL
AND AT LAST THE UN GENERAL 30
SECOND DO NOT MAKE A MOCKERY
OF THE PRINCIPLES OF HUMAN
RIGHTS UNIVERSALITY DO NOT
BETRAY OUR FAITH IN OUR ELECTED
OFFICIALS.
BE BETTER LATE THAN NEVER.
THIS HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
AND CITY COUNCIL MUST CALL FOR
AN IMMEDIATE CEASE FIRE
DELIVERY OF HUMANITARIAN AID,
RELEASE OF ALL HOSTAGES AND
PRISONERS AND AN END TO THIS
GENOCIDE.
AND THIS COMMISSION MUST ALSO
IMMEDIATELY AUTHORIZE A TASK
FORCE TO INVESTIGATE THE
MOUNTING A.M. PALESTINIAN ANTI
ARAB BACKLASH IN OUR CITY AND
COMMUNITY
.
NEXT PERSON IS ERARD EDWARD
TRAGER
, THANK YOU.
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION FOR
ALLOWING ME TO SPEAK TONIGHT A
TRIGGER WORD FIVE AND I THINK
MOST OF YOU HAVE A HAND OUT
JUST HAS SOME DATA ON THIS.
I AM JUST WANT TO YOU KNOW,
IT'S THERE'S BEEN A LOT
QUESTION ABOUT WHAT IS TRUTH
AND WHAT IS NOT TRUE NOWADAYS.
SO THIS IS SORT OF JUST ABOUT
THAT OK AT THE LAST CITY
COUNCIL MEETING OVER IN
YPSILANTI ON DECEMBER 5TH,
SOPHIE ZAIM NOTED THAT THE
AVERAGE AGE OF VICTIMS IN GAZA
WAS FIVE YEARS OLD.
AS SOPHIE SAID, ISRAEL IS AT
WAR WITH KINDERGARTNER'S.
I WAS SHOCKED AND I WANTED TO
KNOW IS THIS TRUE BECAUSE
THERE'S A LOT OUT THERE THAT'S
NOT TRUE ON THE INTERNET,
RIGHT?
WELL, THIS NEWS HAD GONE VIRAL
ON SOCIAL MEDIA BASED ON A
REPORT INVARIANCE GONE A
NORWEGIAN TABLOID PAPER.
WHAT THE NEWSPAPER ACTUALLY
SAID WAS THAT FIVE YEAR OLDS
REPRESENTED THE AGE GROUP WITH
THE HIGHEST NUMBER
OF CASUALTIES KILLED IN GAZA
BETWEEN OCTOBER 7TH AND
OCTOBER .
TWENTY SIXTH TABLOID NEWSPAPERS
ARE NOT KNOWN TO BE BASTIONS
OF TRUTH.
SO I FELT I NEEDED TO
INVESTIGATE THIS SO I
DOWNLOADED THE DATA AT THE SAME
GAZAN MINISTRY OF HEALTH REPORT
THAT THIS TABLOID NEWSPAPER HAD
USED AND I ANALYZED IT MYSELF.
I WANT TO POINT OUT THAT THIS
REPORT HAD BEEN ISSUED BY THE
MINISTRY JUST HOURS AFTER US
PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN HAD
SUGGESTED THAT PALESTINIANS
WERE LYING ABOUT THE ACTUAL
NUMBER OF CIVILIANS KILLED,
CIVILIANS KILLED.
SHAME ON JOE BIDEN
INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATION, THE
WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION, THE
UNITED NATIONS AND
INVESTIGATIVE JOURNALISTS ALL
THE WORLD OVER HAVE VETTED AND
CONFIRMED THAT THESE NUMBERS
FROM THE HEALTH MINISTRY ARE
GENERALLY CONCORDANT WITH THEIR
OWN FIGURES.
THEY'RE ACCURATE.
SO IT TURNS OUT THAT IT IS TRUE
FIVE YEAR OLDS ARE THE AGE
GROUP WITH THE HIGHEST NUMBER
OF CASUALTIES AND YOU CAN LOOK
ON THE SHEET FOLLOWED BY THREE
YEAR OLDS ELEVEN YEAR OLD SIX
YEAR OLDS, FOUR YEAR OLDS, TWO
YEAR OLDS AND SO ON.
HONESTLY, THE FIRST EIGHTEEN
ROWS OF THIS TABLE ARE ALL
CHILDREN.
I CANNOT THINK OF A GREATER
TRAGEDY THAN THIS ON THE BACK
SIDE OF THIS THERE'S ALSO A
LITTLE TABLE OF THE MEDIAN
PERCENTILES.
THIRTY SECONDS.
OK, REALLY QUICKLY THE FIFTIETH
PERCENTILE MEANS THAT FIFTY
PERCENT OF THE CASUALTIES ARE
FIFTEEN YEARS OLD OR YOUNGER.
THE SEVEN TWENTY FIFTH
PERCENTILE MEANS SEVEN YEARS OR
YOUNGER TRAGIC IF YOU WANT THE
AVERAGE THAT HAPPENS TO BE
TWENTY JUST UNDER TWENTY ONE
YEARS OLD.
SO BASICALLY DO THE PEOPLE
OF GAZA HAVE THE SAME RIGHTS TO
ENJOY THE SEMINAL MOMENTS
OF THEIR YOUTH, THE RITES
OF PASSAGE AND THE JOYS
OF RAISING CHILDREN AND THE
JOYS OF WATCHING THEIR
GRANDCHILDREN IN OLD AGE AND WE
ARE LATE BUT NOT TOO LATE TO
CALL FOR AN IMMEDIATE CEASE
FIRE AND ALSO A LOCAL ANTI HATE
TASK FORCE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH
, DENNIS
GUNDARS DENNIS MY NAME IS
DENNIS CONDUCE AND I'M HERE IN
FRONT OF YOU ONCE AGAIN TO CALL
FOR A RESOLUTION FOR CEASE FIRE
IN GAZA.
THIS IS A HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION MEETING AND EVEN
THOUGH A CEASE FIRE ISN'T ON
YOUR AGENDA TONIGHT, IT IS
DEFINITELY ON OURS.
ALMOST TWO MILLION OF ANN ARBOR
TAX DOLLARS ARE BEING SENT TO
ISRAEL EVERY YEAR 90 MILLION
FROM MICHIGAN ALONE THIS MONEY
AMERICAN MONEY IS FUNDING A
GENOCIDE MACHINE OVERSEAS AN
ILLEGAL OCCUPATION THAT HAS
ENTRAPPED CEYDA CITIZENS
OF GAZA IN AN OPEN AIR PRISON
AND NOW A NAZI CONCENTRATION
CAMP.
WELL, WE HAVE HOMELESS ONE
BLOCK AWAY FROM THIS BUILDING.
I FILM THEM THIS PAST WEEK I
SPOKE ABOUT THIS LAST COUPLE
OF WEEKS AGO AND I TALKED TO
THEM LAST WEEK.
OK, WE HAVE A MAN NAMED SHORT
MIKE.
HE'S SIXTY NINE YEARS OLD
LIVING ON THE STREETS OF ANN
ARBOR.
HE DID COME TO YOU FOR HELP AND
HE WAS WAITLISTED.
HE'S BEEN WAITLISTED FOR QUITE
A FEW YEARS.
EVERY WEEK HE GETS ONE THOUSAND
DOLLARS IN SOCIAL SECURITY
INCOME AND HE TAKES THAT MONEY
IN THE WINTER AND SPENDS ONE
WEEK AT THE LOCAL HOTEL TO STAY
WARM WHILE THE REST OF THE
MONTH HE SCRAMBLES TO FIND
SHELTER OUTSIDE AND FREEZES
DURING THE WINTER MONTHS IN
MICHIGAN HE IS NOT ALONE.
THERE ARE OVER ONE HUNDRED
HOMELESS HERE IN THIS CITY.
WHY IS THIS MONEY OUR MONEY
BEING TAKEN FROM ANN ARBOR AND
SENT OVERSEAS TO ISRAEL?
THAT'S WHAT WE AS ANN ARBOR
CITIZENS WANT TO KNOW.
YOU ARE BECAUSE OF IMPROPER
ALLOCATED MONEY YOU'RE CREATING
A CRISIS THERE AND HERE LOCALLY
.
MIKE IS NOT ALONE.
THERE'S ANOTHER WOMAN WHO IS
SEVENTY FIVE YEARS OLD SLEEPING
UNDER THE BRIDGE IN OUR LAND.
I'VE SPOKEN TO COUNTLESS NUMBER
OF TIMES.
SHE ALSO DOES NOT GET
ASSISTANCE.
I ALSO FILMED ALONG THE HURON
RIVER THE DIFFERENT HOMELESS
CAMPS AND I MADE A VIDEO
COMPILATION TAGGED ALMOST ALL
OF THE CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS ON
INSTAGRAM.
IT HAS OVER SEVEN THOUSAND
VIEWS SO FAR.
THIRTY.
IT'S GOING TO CONTINUE TO GROW
AND I'M GOING TO CONTINUE TO
FILM FOOTAGE OF THE HOMELESS
UNLESS YOU TAKE CARE OF HUMAN
RIGHTS HERE AND STOP THE
GENOCIDE AND CALL FOR A CEASE
FIRE RESOLUTION IN THERE IN
GAZA.
THANK YOU.
BLAINE COLEMAN 20 YEARS AGO
THIS HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
VOTED UNANIMOUSLY FOR A
RESOLUTION AGAINST MILITARY AID
TO ISRAEL.
TWENTY YEARS AGO THIS HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION SENT THAT
RESOLUTION TO THE ANN ARBOR
CITY COUNCIL.
TWENTY YEARS AGO THIS HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION ASK THE ANN
ARBOR CITY COUNCIL TO ADOPT
THEIR RESOLUTION AGAINST
MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL.
I DON'T WANT TO HEAR ANYBODY ON
CITY COUNCIL NOW WITH TWENTY
THOUSAND WITH TWENTY THOUSAND
MORE DEAD PALESTINIAN BABIES
THAN WOMEN AND MEN PILED UP ALL
THOSE TWENTY THOUSAND PLUS
BODIES PILED UP IN GAZA.
I DON'T WANT TO HEAR ANY CITY
COUNCIL ANY HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION MEMBER SAYING OH
YEAH, THAT'S NOT SOMETHING WE
CAN DEAL WITH.
YOU WELL CAN DEAL WITH IT.
YOU DID TWENTY YEARS AGO.
YOU CAN DO IT TODAY UNLESS
UNLESS YOU ARE BENT ON
MURDERING ANOTHER TWENTY
THOUSAND PALESTINIANS DON'T
HELP ISRAEL MURDER ANOTHER
TWENTY THOUSAND PALESTINIANS.
MANY, MANY CITY COUNCILS HAVE
APPROVED RESOLUTIONS FOR CEASE
FIRE AT THE VERY, VERY MINIMUM
YOU CAN APPROVE A RESOLUTION
FOR CEASE FIRE AND ASK THE CITY
COUNCIL TO APPROVE IT AT THE
VERY LEAST.
BUT IF YOU HAVE ANY CONSCIENCE
YOU WILL ALSO ASK THAT
RESOLUTION TO INCLUDE NO MORE
MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL AS THE
RICHMOND, CALIFORNIA CITY
COUNCIL ALREADY HAS DONE ALMOST
UNANIMOUSLY.
IF YOU HAVE ANY CONSCIENCE YOU
UNDERSTAND THAT YOU ARE
SUPPLYING YOU ARE SUPPLYING TWO
THOUSAND POUND BOMBS, TWO
THOUSAND POUND BUNKER BUSTER
BOMBS TO ISRAEL IN MASSIVE
QUANTITIES TO BLOW DOWN WHOLE
CITY BLOCKS OF BUILDINGS AND
WHAT'S UNDER CITY BLOCKS
OF BUILDINGS THE DEAD BODIES
OF MOSTLY PALESTINIAN BABIES
AND CHILDREN AND WOMEN MOSTLY
TRAPPED UNDER THOUSANDS
OF POUNDS OF CONCRETE TRAPPED
UNDER THOUSANDS OF POUNDS
OF CONCRETE.
THAT'S WHAT YOU ARE DOING NOW
STOP IT PLEASE.
AT THE VERY LEAST YOU HAVE ALL
THE AUTHORITY YOU NEED TO SAY
PLEASE STOP IT.
PLEASE STOP SENDING MILITARY
AID TO ISRAEL.
YOU CAN DO THAT BECAUSE YOU DID
IT IN TWO THOUSAND AND THREE
AND YOU CAN WELL DO IT NOW AND
OF COURSE OF COURSE APPROVE A
RESOLUTION AT LEAST FOR CEASE
FIRE AT LEAST FOR CEASE FIRE TO
STOP ISRAEL FROM MURDERING MORE
.
YES, YES.
GO AHEAD.
CALL ME MOJGAN SAVAS.
THAT IS JUST FINE.
YEAH, THAT WAS A MISERABLE
PRONUNCIATION.
SO I TOO HAVE BEEN COMING TO
THIS VERY HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION SINCE TWO THOUSAND
AND TWO THIS HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION DID APPROVE A
RESOLUTION TO CUT OFF MILITARY
AID TO ISRAEL IN 2003 AFTER WE
HAD BEEN AFTER THEM FOR A VERY
LONG TIME.
THERE IS HUGE RESISTANCE IN ANN
ARBOR CITY COUNCIL AND HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION WHEN IT COMES
TO PROTECTING PALESTINIANS AND
ALL OF THAT HAS TRANSPIRED TO
THIS FINAL EPISODE OF MURDERING
TWENTY THOUSAND PEOPLE PROBABLY
MORE.
SOME ESTIMATES SAY BETWEEN 20
AND 50 THOUSAND PEOPLE ARE
DEAD AND THAT IS NOT COUNTING
HOW MANY PEOPLE ARE DYING UNDER
THE RUBBLE THAT IS NOT COUNTING
HOW MANY PEOPLE HAVE LOST LIMBS
AND THEY HAVE BEEN FOR LIFE
CRIPPLED.
THAT IS NOT COUNTING ONE A HALF
MILLION PEOPLE WHO HAVE LOST
THEIR HOMES.
THAT IS NOT COUNTING INFECTIOUS
DISEASES THAT ARE RAMPANT IN
GAZA RIGHT NOW BECAUSE THE
WATER IS SO POLLUTED THAT IS
NOT COUNTING SO MANY MORE
CRIMES OF THE STATE OF ISRAEL
IF THIS CITY COUNCIL AFTER
SIXTY FIVE DAYS OF RELENTLESS
BOMBING OF GAZA, IF THIS CITY
COUNCIL STILL HAS NOTHING TO
SAY ABOUT HUMAN RIGHTS
OF PALESTINIANS, THEN THEY ARE
GIVING A CLEAR SIGN TO THE
WORLD POPULATION WHICH IS NOT
STANDING WITH PEOPLE
OF PALESTINE.
PEOPLE OF THE WORLD ARE
STANDING WITH THE PEOPLE
OF PALESTINE.
IF YOU DO NOT RUSH TO PASS A
RESOLUTION TO CUT OFF MILITARY
AID TO ISRAEL TO STOP THIS
MADNESS OF BOMBING, YOU DON'T
ASK FOR CEASEFIRE IMMEDIATE AND
PERMANENT IF YOU DON'T ASK FOR
A LIFTING OF THIS SAVAGE SAVAGE
SIEGE ON GAZA IMMEDIATELY THEN
YOU ARE TELLING THE WORLD THAT
YOU ARE THE SAME BARBARIAN THAT
MURDERED AND SLAUGHTERED NATIVE
THIS LAND AND TOOK THEIR LAND.
THEN YOU ARE TELLING THE ENTIRE
WORLD YOU ARE THE SAME
BARBARIANS WHO ENSLAVED
AFRICANS AND ACCEPTED THEIR
LABOR AND LYNCHED THEM IF YOU
DON'T IMMEDIATELY SAWYER YOU
ARE TELLING THE WORLD YOU ARE
THE SAME BARBARIANS THAT
DESTROYED AND KILLED HUNDREDS
AND THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE WITH
ATOM BOMB.
IF YOU DON'T DO IT IMMEDIATELY
AND BE SURE WE WILL COME BACK
AND WE WILL FORCE YOU TO
EMBRACE YOUR OWN HUMANITY
BECAUSE YOU ARE BEHAVING A
BEAST BUT YOU ARE ACTUALLY
HUMAN BEINGS.
WE WILL FORCE YOU TO ACT LIKE
HUMAN BEINGS
.
SO HERE IS SHERRI SEMIRA.
SORRY.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M HERE TO ASK FOR A CEASE
FIRE RESOLUTION STOP THE
GENOCIDE IN GAZA.
ACCORDING TO THE UNITED
NATIONS, INTERNATIONAL HUMAN
RIGHTS LAW ESTABLISHES THE
OBLIGATIONS OF GOVERNMENTS TO
ACT IN CERTAIN WAYS TO REFRAIN
FROM CERTAIN ACTS TO PROMOTE
AND PROTECT THE HUMAN RIGHTS
FUNDAMENTAL FREEDOMS OF THE
INDIVIDUAL OR GROUPS.
ER IS CONSIDERED A HUMAN RIGHT
EXCEPT FOR PALESTINIANS
.
ISRAEL HAS KILLED TWENTY
THOUSAND PEOPLE AS FAR AS
OCTOBER 7TH DEPRIVING THEM
OF THE BASIC RIGHT TO BREATHE
FOOD IS A HUMAN RIGHT BUT NOT
FOR PALESTINIANS BEFORE
OCTOBER 7TH THEIR FOOD WAS
RATIONED AND AFTER THAT DAY IT
WAS ENTIRELY CUT OFF LEADING TO
STARVATION AND DEATHS.
LAND IS CONSIDERED A HUMAN
RIGHT BUT PALESTINIANS HAVE
BEEN DENIED THIS RIGHT SINCE
NINETEEN FORTY EIGHT.
BUT THEIR LAND OCCUPIED BY
ISRAEL PRESENTLY THERE IS A
DISPLACEMENT PEOPLE FROM THE
SOUTH THE NORTH OF GAZA WITH
EIGHTY PERCENT LOSING THEIR
LAND TO ISRAEL.
WATER IS A HUMAN RIGHT BUT
GAZA'S WATER WAS POISONED
BEFORE OCTOBER SEVEN AND AFTER
THAT DATE THERE WAS ZERO WATER
AVAILABLE TO TWO MILLION PEOPLE
THANKS TO ISRAEL.
ADDITIONALLY, ISRAEL PROVIDES
THE COLLECTION TO BRING WATER
BY THE PEOPLE OF GAZA.
LET THIS SINK IN FOR A MINUTE
RAIN WATER THEY CANNOT COLLECT
THE RIGHT TO EXIST AS A HUMAN
RIGHT.
YET OVER A THOUSAND PALESTINIAN
CHILDREN HAVE BEEN KILLED SINCE
OCTOBER .
SEVEN CHILDREN WITH NEWBORNS
DENIED THE CHANCE TO LIVE
INNOCENT MEN, WOMEN AND
CHILDREN ARE IMPRISONED IN
ISRAELI PRISONS WITHOUT HAVING
COMMITTED ANY CRIMES WITHOUT
DUE PROCESS, ENDURING SEVERE
PUNISHMENT, SOLITARY
CONFINEMENT DURING WAR, THE
RIGHT TO HUMAN HUMANITARIAN AID
INCLUDING MEDICINE WAS NOT
ALLOWED INTO GAZA FOR QUITE
SOME TIME ALLOWED IT WAS IT WAS
MINIMAL AMOUNTS.
ISRAEL VIOLATED HUMAN RIGHTS BY
WAGING ON INNOCENT CIVILIANS,
KILLING PEOPLE OF ALL AGES,
BOMBING HOSPITALS, DOCTORS,
NURSES AND AID WORKERS.
JUSTICE AND PEACE ARE HUMAN
RIGHTS A COLLECTIVE PUNISHMENT,
ETHNIC CLEANSING,
DEHUMANIZATION AND VARIOUS
ATROCITIES HAVE BEEN COMMITTED
AGAINST PALESTINIANS.
EDUCATION IS A HUMAN RIGHT YET
SCHOOLS UNIVERSITIES ARE BEING
BOMBED BY ISRAEL GOVERNMENT IN
COUNTRIES COMPLICIT IN GENOCIDE
SHOULD BE HELD ACCOUNTABLE IN
THE HAGUE FOR THE INFRINGEMENT
OF HUMAN RIGHTS BY THE
AGGRESSOR.
THE APARTHEID STATE OF ISRAEL
AND THIS WAR OF THE
HUMANIZATION SOCIETY MUST
UPHOLD JUSTICE AND EQUALITY FOR
ALL REGARDLESS OF RACE, COLOR
OR ETHNICITY.
ISRAEL NEEDS TO BE SANCTIONED,
PROSECUTED AND FUNDED.
FREEDOM OF THE PRESS IS VITAL
TO THE PROTECTION THE PRESS IS
MANDATORY.
ISRAEL IS INVOLVED IN AN
ILLEGAL OCCUPATION ACCORDING TO
INTERNATIONAL LAW.
EVERY HUMAN BEING BORN ON THIS
EARTH MUST HAVE THE RIGHT TO
ENJOY FREEDOM, JUSTICE,
EQUALITY.
ISRAEL'S ACTIONS VIOLATE HUMAN
RIGHTS UNDER THE GENEVA
CONVENTION, AMNESTY
INTERNATIONAL, THE UNITED
NATIONS AND VARIOUS OTHER
ORGANIZATIONS.
ISRAEL'S IMPUNITY IS ATTRIBUTED
TO THE UNLIMITED PROTECTION
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
AND EUROPE AS LONG THIS
PROTECTION CONTINUES, THE
ISRAELI GOVERNMENT WILL HAVE A
FREE PASS TO CONTINUE THE
DESTRUCTION OF GAZA AND
GENOCIDAL MASSACRES AND THE
ETHNIC CLEANSING OF INNOCENT
CIVILIANS.
WE REQUEST THAT THE HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION PUT THE
PRESSURE ON WASHINGTON AND THAT
OUR VOICES BE HEARD AND
REPRESENTED CITIZENS OF THEIR
DEMAND FOR THE RELEASE OF ALL
PRISONERS PALESTINIAN PRISONERS
AND HOLDING ISRAEL ACCOUNTABLE
FOR ITS ACTIONS.
THE CALLS FOR AN IMMEDIATE
RESOLUTION FOR CEASE FIRE, THE
END OF WAR INJUSTICE FOR
INJUSTICE FOR THE PALESTINIANS
INCLUDING THE RIGHT OF RETURN
AND SELF-DETERMINATION IN THEIR
HOMELAND
.
SANDRA COSINI
, I THANK YOU FOR
ALLOWING ME TO SPEAK IN SUPPORT
OF PALESTINE.
FIRST AND FOREMOST WE NEED A
RESOLUTION FOR A CEASE FIRE
RIGHT AWAY.
BY THE TIME I FINISHED SPEAKING
THREE CHILDREN WILL HAVE DIED
IN GAZA.
I AM A STUDENT AT U OF MY WORK
IN RESEARCHING LAND MANAGEMENT
AND THE ETHICS OF OUR HUMANITY
AND HOW THAT INFLUENCES OUR USE
AND EXTRACTION OF NATURAL
RESOURCES.
BACK IN OCTOBER ISRAEL BEGAN
SELLING EXPLORATION PERMITS FOR
NATURAL GAS UNDER GAZA AND I
BELIEVE THAT OUR INVOLVEMENT IN
PALESTINE WAS TO SECURE THE
EXTENSIVE AMOUNTS OF NATURAL
GAS LOCATED UNDERNEATH THE GAZA
STRIP.
THEN I HEARD ABOUT THE
BEN-GURION CANAL.
THIS CANAL WOULD BE AN
ALTERNATIVE TO THE SUEZ CANAL
SINCE ISRAEL HAS BEEN BEHIND
THE PORT OF THE CANAL WOULD BE
IN SOUTHERN GAZA CAUSING ALL
OF ISRAEL'S IMPORTS AND EXPORTS
TO RUN THROUGH PALESTINE.
THIS WOULD ALSO CREATE A HUGE
SOURCE OF INCOME FOR PALESTINE
SINCE IT WOULD CONTROL ITS OWN
PORT IN GAZA.
UPON FURTHER RESEARCH I
DISCOVERED THAT ABOUT
ADMINISTRATES HAS BEEN STACKED
WITH BLAKROC EXECUTIVES FOR
INSTANCE, THE FINANCIAL
ADVISERS TO BOTH BIDEN AND
HARRIS ARE BOTH EXECUTIVES
OF THE BLACKROCK FIRM.
BLACKROCK IS AN INVESTOR INVEST
FIRM THAT DESIGNS, PRODUCES AND
PROVIDES WEAPONS TO ISRAEL.
BIDEN HAS MADE BILLIONS FROM
WEAPON SALES TO ISRAEL DURING
HIS PRESIDENCY.
IT'S NO SECRET THAT WE HAVE AN
EPIDEMIC OF GUN VIOLENCE IN OUR
SCHOOLS IN AMERICA THE MENTAL
HEALTH OF OUR TEENS GROWS
CONTINUALLY MORE FRAGILE.
OUR KIDS GROW MORE AND MORE
DISCONNECTED.
CHILDREN ARE OUR TARGET IN
AMERICA FOR MASS SHOOTINGS AND
SEX TRAFFICKING WITH CHILDREN
DISAPPEARING CONSTANTLY
ESPECIALLY FROM MIGRANT AND
INDIGENOUS COMMUNITIES AND NOW
THE CHILDREN OF GAZA ARE THE
TARGETS OF MILITARY TESTING.
ARE WE AS A CITY GOING TO
REMAIN COMPLICIT?
WELL, MONITOR FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT MAKES THESE
DECISIONS FOR OUR CHILDREN'S
FUTURE.
WE REALLY MUST BE VIGILANT IN
CREATING BOUNDARIES AND
ADVOCATING FOR A FREE AND
VIBRANT CULTURE AND IN ORDER
FOR OURSELVES AND FOR OUR
CHILDREN.
THE UNITED STATES HAS JUST
FACILITES.
A PUBLIC MASSACRE OF OVER
TWENTY THOUSAND PEOPLE IN GAZA
.
THIS IS AN UNFATHOMABLE LEVEL
OF OPPRESSION.
OPPRESSION CREATES RESISTANCE
SO IT SHOULD NOT SURPRISE US
THAT RESISTANCE IN PALESTINE
BLOWING UP GAZA WILL NOT STOP
THE RESISTANCE KILLING MEMBERS
OF HAMAS WILL NOT STOP THE
RESISTANCE BECAUSE NOTHING CAN
STOP RESISTANCE AS LONG AS
THERE IS OPPRESSION.
SO WHAT KIND OF LEADERS DO WE
WANT TO BE?
THE ANSWER IS NOT COMPLICATED
EITHER.
THE BRUTAL GENOCIDE
OF PALESTINIANS AND OTHER ARABS
IS OK WITH YOU OR IT IS NOT.
I CALL FOR AN IMMEDIATE CEASE
IN PALESTINE NOW
A DEAL LAURA
BUSH
.
HELLO.
I AM HERE TO ASK YOU TO PASS A
RESOLUTION CALLING FOR A CEASE
FIRE.
PEOPLE IN PALESTINE ARE BEING
KILLED.
INNOCENT PEOPLE ARE BEING HELD.
THE ISRAELI MILITARY IS BOMBING
SCHOOLS, HOSPITALS, HOSPITALS,
HOUSES AND MORE.
THE RIGHT TO LIFE IS THE MOST
FUNDAMENTAL HUMAN RIGHT THAT WE
ALL POSSESS.
SO WHY ARE INNOCENT CIVILIANS
IN GAZA AND THE WEST BANK NOT
BEING GIVEN THE RIGHT AT THE
TIME OF WRITING THIS OVER 18
THOUSAND PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
KILLED IN THE GAZA STRIP SINCE
OCTOBER 7TH.
OVER EIGHT THOUSAND OF THOSE
PEOPLE WERE CHILDREN.
THERE ARE ALSO MANY PEOPLE
STILL UNDER THE BIBLE IN THE
WEST BANK ALSO AT THE TIME
OF WRITING ABOUT TWO HUNDRED
SIXTY FIVE PALESTINIANS HAVE
BEEN KILLED.
SIXTY NINE CHILDREN IN ADDITION
TO THE HEAVY BOMBING AND
SHOOTING THERE IS A SEVERE LACK
OF FOOD AND WATER ACCESS TO
FOOD AND WATER IS A HUMAN RIGHT
.
MANY PALESTINIANS ARE ALSO
BEING DETAINED WITHOUT CHARGE
OR TRIAL IN ADMINISTRATIVE
DETENTION AND SUBJECTED TO
INHUMANE CONDITIONS.
THE NUMBER OF PALESTINIANS IN
ADMINISTRATIVE DETENTION AGAIN
WITHOUT CHARGE OR TRIAL HAS
NEARLY DOUBLED SINCE
OCTOBER 1ST AND FOR DETAINMENT
IS A HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATION.
SO IT WAS TORTURE.
PEOPLE IN PALESTINE DESERVE
HUMAN RIGHTS JUST LIKE EVERYONE
ELSE.
THIS SISCO'S NEEDED TO PUT AN
END TO THE ATROCIOUS HUMAN
RIGHTS VIOLATIONS HAPPENING IN
GAZA AND THE WEST BANK RIGHT
NOW I AM ASKING YOU ALL AS THE
COUNCIL AS THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION TO TAKE A STAND
AGAINST GENOCIDE, AGAINST
APARTHEID, AGAINST HUMAN RIGHTS
VIOLATIONS AND CALL FOR A CEASE
FIRE IN ADDITION TO THIS I
WOULD LIKE YOU TO CALL TO ALLOW
HUMAN HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE
TO BE ALLOWED INTO GAZA AND TO
CALL FOR AN END TO US FUNDING
OF THE ISRAELI MILITARY.
MAKE IT KNOWN THAT YOU DO NOT
SUPPORT GENOCIDE OF THE
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE.
WE NEED A COMPLETE AND
PERMANENT CEASE FIRE NOW.
THANK YOU
, JOAN LOEWENSTEIN
.
GOOD EVENING.
WHY IS IT THAT ANTI-ISRAEL
ACTIVISTS ARE SO ADAMANT THAT
ISRAELI ACCOUNTS OF HAMAS
MURDERS AND RAPES ARE UNTRUE?
ISRAELIS HAVE ALWAYS BEEN
RELUCTANT TO SHOW THEMSELVES AS
VICTIMS.
IT IS ANATHEMA TO THE ISRAELI
CULTURE A CULTURE OF SURVIVAL
AND STRENGTH TO EVER ADMIT THAT
JEWS CAN BE VICTIMS AND AS IT
IS CERTAINLY NEVER ACCEPTED TO
GLORY IN VICTIMHOOD OR
MARTYRDOM IN THE EARLY YEARS
OF THE STATE IN THE FORTIES AND
FIFTIES HOLOCAUST SURVIVORS HID
THEIR TATTOO NUMBERS.
NO ONE WANTED TO BE REMINDED
OF VICTIMS OF PERCEIVED
WEAKNESS OF HORRORS
.
THROUGHOUT ISRAEL'S HISTORY
THERE HAVE BEEN TERRORIST
ATTACKS, BOMBERS AND MURDERERS
SNEAKING IN ACROSS ALL THE
BORDERS TO KILL JEWS.
BUT EVEN DURING THE MURDEROUS
SECOND INTIFADA BARELY 20 YEARS
AGO WHEN SUICIDE BOMBERS BLEW
UP BUSSES, WEDDING PARTIES,
PASSOVER CELEBRATIONS, ISRAELIS
WOULD IMMEDIATELY CLEAN UP THE
DAMAGE AND IMMEDIATELY REBUILD
.
NO ONE WANTED TO BE REMINDED
OF DEATH AND DESTRUCTION.
SO IMAGINE HOW DIFFICULT IT IS
FOR ISRAELIS NOW TO SHOW THE
WORLD WHAT THE TERRORISTS HAVE
DONE THE DESTRUCTION OF THE
KIBBUTZIM, THE MURDERS, THE
MUTILATIONS, THE RAPE THEY DO
NOT GLORY IN THAT.
BUT THE WORLD MUST KNOW ABOUT
THE EXISTENTIAL THREAT.
IT IS A FIGHT FOR SURVIVAL.
THERE ARE TRAGEDIES.
IT IS WAR IN THE RAGE OF THE
MOMENT, AN ISRAELI OFFICIAL
CALLED THE HAMAS TERRORISTS
ANIMALS IN THE WORDS OF ISRAELI
PRIZE WINNING AUTHOR AND PEACE
ACTIVIST DAVID GROSSMAN.
I DON'T KNOW IF THESE PEOPLE
ARE ANIMALS BUT THEY CERTAINLY
HAVE LOST THEIR HUMANITY
.
I THINK TAURUS
MURDEROUS I'M
SORRY.
DID I REALLY RUIN SO I KNOW
YEAH.
THAT'S SORRY.
NO, IT'S OK.
THANK YOU.
I'M A POLITICAL SCIENTIST, A
WAR TO RESIDENT AND AN ANN
ARBOR PUBLIC SCHOOL PARENT.
I AM PALESTINIAN AND I'M YOUR
NEIGHBOR.
I KNOW YOU'RE COMMITTED TO
HUMAN RIGHTS AND I THANK YOU
FOR YOUR WORK.
IT'S WHY I ASK YOU TO ALSO
SUPPORT CALLS FOR A CEASE FIRE.
ANYONE WHO WANTS A JUST
SOLUTION FOR PALESTINIANS AND
ISRAELIS NEEDS TO ASK FOR A
CEASE FIRE SO THAT NEGOTIATIONS
CAN RESUME NO MATTER HOW
INDIRECT ANY PRESSURE THAT THIS
COMMISSION CAN PUT ON CITY
COUNCIL TO SAY IN NO UNCERTAIN
TERMS THE GENOCIDE AGAINST
PALESTINIANS IN GAZA IS
UNACCEPTABLE WOULD BE OF VALUE.
THIS IS ALSO PRESSURE TO ASK
OUR CONGRESSWOMAN WHO DID CALL
FOR A CEASE FIRE TO ALSO DRAFT
A RESOLUTION THAT SHE AND HER
COLLEAGUES WOULD BE COMFORTABLE
SIGNING THAT'S THE ASK AS A
BODY CONCERNED WITH HUMAN
RIGHTS, PLEASE SUPPORT CALLS
FOR A CEASE FIRE FROM YOUR
COMMUNITY AND PLEASE ENDORSE
ANY CALLS FOR A CEASE FIRE
SHOULD THEY COME FROM CITY
COUNCIL ENDORSING A CEASE FIRE?
IT DOES NOT MEAN ENDORSING
HAMAS.
IT DOESN'T MEAN GIVING UP ON
HOSTAGES OR ON DETAINEES.
WE'VE ONLY SEEN HOSTAGES RETURN
THROUGH POLITICAL SOLUTIONS.
IT DOESN'T MEAN THAT YOU DON'T
HAVE COMPASSION FOR AN ARBOR'S
JEWISH RESIDENTS AND IT DOESN'T
MEAN THAT THEY ARE IN DANGER.
THEY SHOULD NEVER I REGRET THAT
THE ANAMBRA SYNAGOGUE WAS THE
SITE OF ANTI ISRAEL PROTESTS.
I THINK THAT THAT'S WRONG
ENDORSING A CEASE FIRE DOES
MEAN EXTENDING THAT SAME
COMPASSION AND PROTECTION TO
YOUR ARAB AND PALESTINIAN
NEIGHBORS IN THIS WERE
SUPPORTED BY OUR ANTI ZIONIST
JEWISH BROTHERS AND SISTERS AND
BY THE MAJORITY OF AMERICANS.
A CEASE FIRE AFFIRMS THAT OUR
LIVES AND THE LIVES OF OUR
CHILDREN DESERVE THE SAME
COMPASSION AND PROTECTION AND
THE FAILURE TO SPEAK FOR A
CEASE FIRE HAS CONTRIBUTED TO A
PUBLIC CLIMATE WHERE IT'S OPEN
SEASON ON PALESTINIANS AS WE
ARE FURTHER DEHUMANIZED.
I'M GOING TO TALK ABOUT TWO
THINGS VERY QUICKLY.
THE FIRST IS THE ONGOING HUMAN
RIGHTS VIOLATIONS.
SO FIRST RIGHT NOW ESTIMATES
ARE THAT TWENTY FIVE THOUSAND
CHILDREN HAVE BEEN ORPHANED.
TO PUT THIS IN PERSPECTIVE, ANN
ARBOR PUBLIC SCHOOLS HAVE JUST
OVER SEVENTEEN THOUSAND
STUDENTS I BELIEVE SO THAT
WOULD BE IF EVERY CHILD IN OUR
SCHOOLS HAD A PARENT KILLED AND
EVERY CHILD IN THESE PUBLIC
SCHOOLS AND INDEXERS PUBLIC
SCHOOLS HAD THE SAME AND THEY
WOULD STILL BE BEING BOMBARDED
.
FIFTY THOUSAND PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
INJURED.
THAT'S THE COMBINED NUMBER
OF RESIDENTS OF ANY TWO WARDS
AND OUR MORE JOURNALISTS HAVE
BEEN KILLED IN THESE CITIES
THAN IN THE TWO DECADES OF THE
VIETNAM.
THERE ARE HUMAN RIGHTS
VIOLATIONS AS WE ALL KNOW.
THE SECOND THING THAT I WANT TO
SAY IS THAT THIS IS RELEVANT TO
YOU.
I MEAN ANN ARBOR WAS RANKED THE
MOST EDUCATED CITY IN THE U.S.
SO YOU KNOW, WE ALL KNOW THAT
CITIES DON'T MAKE FOREIGN
POLICY.
BUT WHAT WE DO KNOW IS THAT WE
CAN PUT PRESSURE AT THE
UNIVERSITY AT THE CITY.
THERE'S AN ASYMMETRY BECAUSE
BOTH HAVE PROVIDED STATEMENTS,
CONDEMNATIONS AND SPECIAL
PROTECTIONS FOR MATTERS
IMPACTING COMMUNITIES.
AND WHAT I WOULD ASK IS FOR THE
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION TO
STAND UP FOR COMMUNITIES LIKE
OURS AS IT HAS DONE IN THE PAST
.
THANK YOU
HAS BEEN MADHANI
DO I
PRESS THE BUTTON I STARTED OH
THANK YOU.
HELLO MY NAME IS JUSTIN.
OVER THE LAST TWO MONTHS WE'VE
BEEN COLLECTIVELY WITNESSING
GROSS VIOLATIONS
OF INTERNATIONAL HUMANITARIAN
LAW UNFOLDING IN GAZA IN THE
LATEST INSTALLMENT OF WHAT
ISRAELI FORCES REFER TO AS
MOWING THE LAWN, OVER EIGHTEEN
THOUSAND BLADES OF GRASS HAVE
BEEN KILLED IN BOMBARDMENTS
HOSPITALS, HOMES, SCHOOLS,
UNIVERSITIES, REFUGEE CAMPS AND
PLACES OF WORSHIP.
OVER A MILLION CIVILIANS HAVE
BEEN INTERNALLY DISPLACED AND A
STRIP OF LAND ROUGHLY THE SIZE
OF DETROIT AND FOUR TIMES ITS
POPULATION.
AND IN JUST TWO MONTHS I'VE
LOST 30 MEMBERS OF MY FAMILY
THE YOUNGEST NOT EVEN HAVING
REACHED HIS THIRD BIRTHDAY.
THE OLDEST SURVIVING MEMBER
OF MY FAMILY IS CURRENTLY
LIVING IN A MAKESHIFT ROOM ON A
RELATIVE'S ROOF.
HIS HEALTH DECLINING DUE TO
LOSING ACCESS TO HIS MEDICATION
FOR WEEKS.
MAKE NO MISTAKE WHAT WE'RE
SEEING IN GAZA IS THE MOST
CLEAR CUT CASE OF GENOCIDE AS
RECOGNIZED BY FORMER DIRECTOR
OF THE NEW YORK OFFICE OF THE
UN HIGH COMMISSIONER FOR HUMAN
RIGHTS CRAIG MUKABER AND
OTHERS.
BUT THIS ISN'T ANYTHING NEW THE
SYSTEMIC RACISM OF PALESTINIANS
AND THE DISMISSAL OF THEIR
SUFFERING DESPITE THEIR TRAUMA
BEING ON FULL DISPLAY IS
NOTHING NEW.
AS AN ANN ARBOR NATIVE AND A
PALESTINIAN SYRIAN AMERICAN
STUDENT AT THE UNIVERSITY
MICHIGAN SCHOOL OF EDUCATION,
YOUR SILENCE AND INACTION IN
RESPONSE, THE US FUNDED AND
ARBER FUNDED ONSLAUGHT ON GAZA
IS DEEPLY DISAPPOINTING.
MEMBERS OF THIS COMMUNITY HAVE
CALLING ON YOU, OUR
REPRESENTATIVES TO END OUR
COMPLICITY IN PALESTINIAN
SUFFERING FOR OVER 20 YEARS TO
ADD INSULT TO INJURY, TO ADD
INSULT TO INJURY FELLOW
PALESTINIANS, PEACE ACTIVISTS
AND ALLIES THAT YOU THEM HAVE
BEEN SUBJECTED TO ROUTINE
SILENCING AND HARASSMENT SIMPLY
FOR DEMANDING OUR LEADERSHIP TO
REPRESENT OUR WILL AND TO
PROTECT US.
FELLOW STUDENTS HAVE
EXPERIENCED VERBAL ABUSE BY
UNIVERSITY ADVISORY BOARD
MEMBER WITHOUT CONSEQUENCE HAVE
BEEN DOCK'S HAVE ENDURED
THREATS TO THEIR PHYSICAL
SAFETY INCLUDING THREATS.
PEACEFUL PROTESTS HAVE BEEN
OVERPOLICED BY UNIVERSITY
POLICE AND THE APD, A STUDENT
BODY SLAIN AND HANDCUFFED BY
POLICE OFFICER AFTER HER HIJAB
WAS TORN OFF.
WE DON'T FEEL SAFE OR PROTECTED
BY THOSE COMMITTED TO SERVING
AND REPRESENTING US RIGHT NOW
WHETHER BY OUR UNIVERSITIES AND
SCHOOLS, THE APD OR THIS
COMMISSION.
I'M THEREFORE CALLING ON YOU TO
RENEW YOUR COMMITMENT TO HUMAN
RIGHTS BY TAKING IMMEDIATE
ACTION TO RESPOND TO HARMS
COMMITTED AGAINST PEACE
ACTIVISTS IN OUR COMMUNITY AND
BY DRAFTING A RESOLUTION THAT
ENSHRINES THE PROTECTION OF ALL
INDIVIDUALS SHOWING SOLIDARITY
WITH PALESTINIANS IN THE
ONGOING GENOCIDE TAKING PLACE
IN GAZA AT LEAST WE CAN DO TO
PROTECT OUR DIVERSE COMMUNITY
FROM DISCRIMINATION INCLUDING
ISLAMOPHOBIA, ANTI-SEMITISM AND
ANTI ARAB BIGOTRY.
THANK YOU
FIES SII
GOOD EVENING
EVERYBODY.
THANK YOU FOR ALLOWING ME TO
SPEAK TODAY.
I'M JUST GOING TO CALL SOME
NUMBERS FROM THE EURO-MED HUMAN
RIGHTS MONITOR THE DAY 66 SIX
THE ISRAELI GENOCIDE IN GAZA
STRIP TWENTY FOUR THOUSAND ONE
FORTY TWO KILLED OUT OF THAT
NINETY NINE THOUSAND FOUR
HUNDRED TWENTY TWO CHILDREN
FOUR NINE OR TEN WOMEN INJURIES
OF FORTY EIGHT THOUSAND NINE
HUNDRED ONE JOURNALISTS KILLED
EIGHTY ONE DISPLACED ONE POINT
EIGHT MILLION PEOPLE DISPLACED
COMPLETELY DESTROYED
RESIDENTIAL UNIT SIXTY TWO
THOUSAND AND FORTY PARTIALLY
DESTROYED RESIDENTIAL UNITS
HUNDRED SEVENTY ONE THOUSAND
TWO HUNDRED TWENTY DESTROYED
PRESS HEADQUARTERS ONE HUNDRED
AND SIXTY THREE DAMAGED SCHOOLS
.
TWO HUNDRED AND EIGHTY TWO
DESTROYED INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES
ONE THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED
TWELVE DAMAGED MOSQUES.
ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY FOUR
DAMAGED CHURCHES.
THREE TARGETED HEALTH STAFF
FOUR HUNDRED AND SIXTY TWO
TARGETED HEALTH FACILITIES.
ONE HUNDRED AND THIRTY ONE OUT
OF THE TWENTY HOSPITALS AND
FIFTY SIX CLINICS.
SO I'M VERY CONFUSED AT THE
STATE THAT WE FIND OURSELVES IN
THE TOWN TO COME HERE AND TRY
TO CONVINCE SOME PEOPLE THAT
THIS IS BAD.
I'M I'M REALLY OUT OF OUT
OF WORDS.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT TO THINK.
WHAT KIND OF WORLD DO I LIVE
IN?
I THOUGHT THIS WAS A CIVILIZED
SOCIETY.
IT'S NOT THAT I THOUGHT THAT WE
WE I THOUGHT THAT WE VALUE LIFE
.
YOU KNOW, THESE NUMBERS ARE
BEYOND BEYOND ANYTHING.
AND JUST FOR ME TO COME HERE
AND SAY PLEASE CAN WE PLEASE
CEASE FIRE IS IS REALLY
SHAMEFUL.
IT'S VERY SHAMEFUL.
YEAH, IT'S VERY DEGRADING TO
ITS HUMAN DIGNITY HAS BEEN JUST
TORN APART.
WHERE IS THIS YOU KNOW, WHERE
ARE AND THIS IS SOUL SEARCHING
AND AND
YOU ARE IN THE WORLD
COMMUNITY SPEAKING WE ARE
ISOLATOR THE WORLD RIGHTFULLY
SO NOBODY LOOKING AT THE
SITUATION IS GOING TO SAY NO
PLEASE STOP THE ARMS.
NOBODY'S GOING TO NOBODY'S
GOING TO OPPOSE THAT.
BUT MAJORITY OF OUR LEADERS ARE
ABLE TO COME TO MY CITY COUNCIL
AND SAY PLEASE CAN YOU PLEASE
TELL THE LEADERS TO STOP THE
BOMBS?
THERE IS A RED I SAW VIDEOS
WHERE KIDS ARE IN TROUBLE
TRYING TO GET SOME HELP FOR THE
FAMILIES THAT SMALL LITTLE GIRL
IS IS TRYING TO CONSOLE HER HER
BROTHER.
YOU KNOW THE SMALL KID IS
TRYING TO CONSOLE THE OTHER KID
AS IS PASSING AWAY.
I SAW A MOSQUE BEING DESECRATED
WITH ARMY GOING IN AND CHANTING
SONGS AND DESECRATING RELIGIOUS
PLACES.
SO I HOPE YOU DO THE DEED.
THANK YOU
FOR YOU TO NOT HAVE
RESOLUTION TONIGHT YOURSELF IS
AN INSULT TO BASHAR, AN INSULT
TO US ON QUIET MOSHAV THE LINE
WHAT'S THE NAME AGAIN?
LASHOF VALON HELEN IN
CHARLOTTE.
YOU LACK A LOT OF GOOD
FOLLOWERS LIKE SORRY I WAS JUST
CHOOSING MY NAME.
HELLO EVERYBODY.
WE STARTED TODAY THIS TIME
TRYING TO A FEW WEEKS AS YOU
MADE EARLIER ABOUT US BEING
ANTI JEWISH ANTI SEMITIC.
I WOULD JUST LIKE TO INFORM
EVERYBODY HERE THAT WE ARE NOT
ANTI JEWISH.
MATTER OF FACT A LOT OF JEWISH
BROTHERS AND SISTERS HAVE
JOINED US IN PROTESTING AND
HAVE JOINED US IN CALLING FOR A
CEASE FIRE.
THEY HAVE SAID MULTIPLE TIMES
OVER AND OVER THAT ISRAEL DOES
NOT REPRESENT BEING JEWISH DOES
NOT MEAN YOU'RE ZIONIST BUT
BEING ZIONIST IS WHAT WE'RE
AGAINST.
WE'RE HERE AGAINST ZIONISM.
WE'RE NOT HERE AGAINST ANY
JEWISH PEOPLE.
SO JUST TO MAKE THAT CLEAR, WE
ARE FRUSTRATED WE SHOW UP WEEK
AFTER WEEK AND WE'VE BEEN
ASKING FOR A CEASE FIRE
RESOLUTION.
HOWEVER, WE STILL ARE MET WITH
CLAIMS LIKE WE'VE HEARD EARLIER
ABOUT FALSE RAPE CLAIMS, FALSE
KILLING CLAIMS KILLING THAT
ISRAEL ITSELF ADMITTED A WEEK
AGO THAT THEIR OWN MILITARY
KILLED THEIR OWN PEOPLE ON
OCTOBER 7TH BECAUSE THEY
THOUGHT THERE WAS MILITIAS FROM
HAMAS.
THEY PUT THEIR OWN APACHES
TARGETED ON CIVILIANS.
AS WE STAND HERE AND AS WE'RE
FRUSTRATED WITH THE LIES, I'D
LIKE TO APOLOGIZE TO OUR FELLOW
CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS IF WE WERE
BEING HARSH AT ANY TIME DURING
ANY OF THE MEETINGS WE WERE
HERE CITY COUNCILWOMAN AYISHA,
CITY COUNCILWOMAN L.N., I KNOW
YOU GUYS WE'VE TALKED BEFORE
AND I'D LIKE TO APOLOGIZE ON
BEHALF OF ME AND MY GROUP THAT
PROPOSED THE RESOLUTION TO YOU
GUYS IF WE WERE FRUSTRATED BUT
WE DO WAKE UP EVERY DAY AND WE
SEE KIDS THAT ARE BEING KILLED
AND WE SEE WOMEN THAT ARE BEING
KILLED AND PEOPLE THAT ARE
BEING DISPLACED FROM THEIR
HOMES.
EVERY DAY I WAKE UP IN THE
FIRST THING I OPEN INSTAGRAM
AND TODAY I SAW A VIDEO OF A
LITTLE CHILD THAT HAS LOST HER
LEGS.
SHE'S BEING RECORDED AND SHE
ALSO LOST HER PARENTS AND SHE
IS SAYING I WISH I COULD DIE
RIGHT NOW THERE IS NOTHING
LEFT.
I HAVE NO LEGS.
I HAVE NO PARENTS.
WE WAKE UP TO SUCH VIDEOS
OF KIDS LIMS OUR OUR KIDS HAVE
LOST THEIR PARENTS.
I SAW IF YOU SAW THE VIDEO
OF THE GRANDPA THAT CAUSED HIS
HIS GRANDDAUGHTER THE SOUL
OF THE SOUL AS AND HE KISSES
HER AS SHE IS DEAD AND HE'S
HOLDING HER BETWEEN HIS ARMS.
SO I AM SORRY THAT WE HAVE BEEN
HARSH.
THIS IS THIS IS WHAT WE GO
THROUGH EVERY DAY WE GO THROUGH
THESE VIDEOS AND THROUGH THESE
PICTURES EVERY DAY AND SOMEBODY
JUST LOST HIS GRANDPA.
I KNOW HOW IT IS TO LOSE
PARENTS, HOW IT IS TO LOSE
CHILDREN.
IT IS VERY FRUSTRATING.
I JUST I'M CALLING EVERY ONE
OF YOU GUYS YOUR HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION PLEASE HELP US
INTRODUCE THE CEASEFIRE TO END
THIS HUMAN SUFFERING.
AT LEAST YOU CAN STAND ON THE
RIGHT SIDE OF HISTORY JUST LIKE
OUR NEIGHBORING CITIES IN
CANTON IN DETROIT, DEARBORN AND
ALL THE OTHER CITIES IN METRO
DETROIT FOLLOWING THANK YOU
.
YOU SHOULD BACK UP PLEASE SEAT
SAFFAR.
HI MY MIND WAS BUSTED SUFFER
THANK YOU TO THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION.
I REALIZE YOU'RE ALL VOLUNTEERS
SO THANK YOU FOR DOING THIS
JOB.
I A PROFESSOR AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN I'M AN ECONOMIST.
I MOVED HERE FOUR YEARS AGO
FROM PHENIX IN PHENIX AND WHEN
WE WERE MOVING WE WERE VERY
HAPPY BECAUSE IT'S A VERY
DIVERSE, VERY EDUCATED DOWN.
I'LL GIVE YOU AN EXAMPLE OF THE
KINDS OF THINGS WE SAW IN
PHENIX.
WE WERE ASKED TO TAKE DOWN OUR
BLACKLIGHT SIGN BLACK LIVES
MATTER SIGN DOWN BECAUSE NO
POLITICAL SIGNS WERE ALLOWED
AND THERE WERE FLAGS EVERYWHERE
AROUND THE NEIGHBORHOOD.
OK, WHEN I MOVED HERE I THOUGHT
OK, IT'S A VERY DIVERSE TOWN, A
VERY EDUCATED TOWN.
IT CERTAINLY IS.
BUT ONE THING I'VE REALIZED IS
LIKE YOU KNOW, IF I LIVED IN
TEXAS OR IN PHENIX, ARIZONA OR
ONE OF THE MORE CONSERVATIVE
PARTS OF THE COUNTRY, PEOPLE
WOULD BE VERY UPFRONT ABOUT
HYPOCRISY AND THEIR BIGOTRY.
THE THING HERE IS THAT IN A
PLACE LIKE ANN ARBOR PEOPLE ARE
QUITE EDUCATED AND NO ONE IS
GOING TO COME OUT AND SAY
CERTAIN LIVES MATTER MORE THAN
OTHERS.
BUT AT THE END OF THE DAY WHAT
MATTERS IS THE BEHAVIOR THAT WE
SEE.
I AM HERE TO ASK THIS COMMITTEE
TO PUT PRESSURE ON THE CITY
COUNCIL TO AT LEAST INTRODUCE A
CEASE FIRE RESOLUTION.
I'M NOT EVEN SAYING THAT YOU
PUT PRESSURE ON THEM TO PASS
ONE.
I DON'T EVEN SO I JUST
UNDERSTAND WHY THE CITY COUNCIL
IS RESISTANT TO INTRODUCING A
RESOLUTION.
I HAVE BEEN E-MAILING THEM I
HAVE EMAILED THE MAYOR.
I HAVE NOT GOTTEN A RESPONSE
AND I'M NOT GOING TO GIVE YOU
STATISTICS.
I THINK YOU KNOW VERY WELL
WHAT'S GOING ON AROUND THE
WORLD HERE ON CAMPUS THE
MESSAGING FROM THE UNIVERSITY
HAS BEEN VERY PROBLEMATIC.
THE UNIVERSITY I'M A FACULTY
MEMBER THERE.
THE FACULTY REALIZES WHAT'S
GOING ON AND HAS BEEN PUSHING
BACK AGAINST ADMINISTRATORS.
WE ARE DOING WHAT WE CAN DO.
I JUST WANT TO MENTION A FEW
THINGS THAT HAVE BEEN MENTIONED
BY THE COUNCIL AS TO WHY THEY
HAVE NOT BEEN WILLING TO
INTRODUCE A RESOLUTION FIRST
FALL.
THEY SAID THAT THEY DON'T GET
INVOLVED IN FOREIGN POLICY BUT
THEIR ACTIONS CONTRADICT THAT
STATEMENT.
THEY HAVE PASSED RESOLUTIONS IN
THE PAST REGARDING BURMA AND
SOUTH AFRICA ARE THERE AFTER
AFTER THE INCIDENT AFTER THE
COUP INCIDENT ON OCTOBER SEVEN
?
YOU KNOW, AT THE END OF THE DAY
EVERY LIFE MATTERS.
WE'RE NOT HERE TO MAKE A CASE
THAT CERTAIN LIVES MATTER MORE
THAN OTHERS.
WE'RE TRYING TO EMPHASIZE TO
THE COUNCIL HERE THAT PLEASE
THINK ABOUT IT IF TO WHAT
TWENTY THOUSAND AMERICANS WHO
ARE WHO HAD BEEN KILLED.
RIGHT.
OR TWENTY THOUSAND WHO HAD BEEN
KILLED.
HOW WOULD YOU HAVE RESPONDED
RIGHT.
THE REALITY HERE IS WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT TWENTY THOUSAND
ARABS THAT HAVE BEEN KILLED AND
THE COUNCIL CAN'T BE EVEN
BOTHERED TO INTRODUCE A
RESOLUTION LIKE WHAT'S GOING ON
HERE.
LIKE YOU SAID.
SO THERE IS A PRECEDENT HERE.
THE MAYOR, FOR EXAMPLE, LED THE
PRAYERS FOR PEACE FOR A FOREIGN
COUNTRY SO THAT ONE SIDE CAN
SAY OH, I'M NOT WE DON'T GET
INVOLVED IN FOREIGN POLICY BUT
THE OTHER SIDE ON THE OTHER
SIDE HE IS TAKING ACTIONS WHICH
CONTRADICT THAT.
THE OTHER THING IS, YOU KNOW,
IT'S SAD THE TOWNS AROUND US
WHO ARE LESS EDUCATED LET LOWER
INCOME DENHA CANTON, YPSILANTI,
DETROIT, THEY HAVE RESOLUTIONS.
WHAT DOES THAT SAY ABOUT OUR
CITY?
AND AND FINALLY, YOU KNOW THE
INACTION OF THIS COUNCIL IS
SETTING A PRECEDENT.
THERE ARE GROUPS THAT ARE
SHOWING UP AT OUR SCHOOL BOARD
MEETINGS TELLING THE SCHOOL
BOARD NOT TO TEACH KIDS HISTORY
.
AT THE END OF THE DAY THIS IS
ABOUT ERASURE OF A GROUP
YOU'VE
COME TO THE END OF OUR LIST.
IS THERE ANYBODY WHO HAS NOT
BEEN ABLE TO SPEAK WHO HAS TO
SPEAK WHO IS NOT SPOKEN SO FAR
BUT ONE STILL WANTS TO
CONTINUE?
YOU HAVE TO SPEAK TO DO WE HAVE
TO SAY OK, PLEASE COME UP TO
THE PODIUM?
WE HAVE WE HAVE A LITTLE BIT
MORE TIME.
I WANT TO MAKE SURE EVERYBODY
CAN WE'VE GOT SOME YEAH.
HI MY NAME IS IF I WAS GOING TO
SHARE SOME STORIES TODAY
OF FRIENDS BEING BURIED UNDER
RUBBLE IN THE PLAZA OR FAMILY
AND FRIENDS FAMILIES HAVE BEEN
SHOT POINT BLANK BY ISRAELI
SOLDIERS.
YOU CAN'T BEGIN TO UNDERSTAND
HOW DEHUMANIZING IT IS RATHER
THAN BE ABLE TO MOURN THE LIVES
OF OUR FRIENDS AND FAMILY THAT
WE HAVE TO STAND UP HERE AND
EXPLAIN TO YOU THAT THEY'RE
WORTHY OF BEING MOURNED.
YOU CAN UNDERSTAND THE
DEHUMANIZE WHEN WE SEE THE
WORLD OPEN ITS ARMS TO
UKRAINIAN REFUGEES AND CLOSE
ITS DOORS TO PALESTINIAN
REFUGEES.
NO WATER, NO FOOD, NO
ELECTRICITY HAS BEEN ALLOWED IN
.
THANK YOU TO THE PREVIOUS
SPEAKER HAD MENTIONED WHAT
HAPPENED DURING THE HOLOCAUST
WHEN THE JEWS WERE TATTOOED
WITH NUMBERS THE NAZIS
PALESTINIANS ARE CURRENTLY
BEING NUMBERED BY ISRAELI
SOLDIERS ON THEIR ARM.
PARENTS ARE WRITING THE NAMES
OF THEIR CHILDREN ON THEIR ARMS
SO THEY CAN IDENTIFY WHEN THEIR
LIMBS ARE BLOWN APART.
I CAN'T BELIEVE IT'S TAKEN US
THIS LONG TO SAY SOMETHING TO
DO SOMETHING WE DON'T HAVE
ANOTHER WEEK.
WE DON'T HAVE ANOTHER TWO WEEKS
FOR OUR FAMILY MEMBERS ARE
WAITING FOR US AND THEY'RE
DYING.
THEY DON'T HAVE TIME FOR FOUR
THOUSAND PEOPLE HAVE BEEN
MURDERED
.
THESE NUMBERS ARE CRIMES.
THEY'RE NOT CONFIRMED.
THERE'S PEOPLE BURIED UNDER
RUBBLE.
PEOPLE CAN'T FIND THEIR FAMILY
MEMBERS FRIENDS BURIED IN THE
RUBBLE BURIED UNDER THEIR
DEAD FAMILY MEMBERS FOR DAYS WE
DEMAND THAT THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION URGE THE CITY
COUNCIL TO IMMEDIATELY PASS
IMMEDIATELY IMMEDIATELY PASS A
CEASE FIRE RESOLUTION THAT
STATES TRUE FACTS NOT
PROPAGANDA THAT HAS BEEN THROWN
ON TV THAT PEOPLE SPITTING
RECKLESSLY THAT HAS ALSO
CONTRIBUTED TO THE MURDER
OF OUR PEOPLE IN PALESTINE FOR
THE PAST SEVENTY FIVE YEARS
THIS HAS BEEN AN ISSUE WAR
CRIMES COMMITTED BY ISRAEL
NOTED BY AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL
HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH SAVE THE
CHILDREN.
WE HAVE COMPUTERS.
WE CAN CHECK THE FACTS PLEASE
IMMEDIATELY URGE A CEASE FIRE
RESOLUTION IS SAID THANK YOU
AGAIN
.
GOOD EVENING HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSIONERS.
MY NAME IS MIRIAM.
I'M A TAXPAYING RESIDENT.
MY DAUGHTER ZAINAB GOES TO U
OF M WHERE STUDENTS FROM A
COALITION OF OVER 50 STUDENT
GROUPS HAVE BEEN TRYING TO MEET
WITH U OF M PRESIDENT.
PRESIDENT REFUSES TO MEET THE
STUDENTS AND CONTINUES TO AS I
SIDE WITH AND SUPPORT THE
ZIONIST ISRAELI REGIME TO THE
DETRIMENT OF PALESTINIAN AND
ARAB STUDENTS ON CAMPUS WHO
HAVE EXPERIENCED INCREASING 90
PALESTINIAN DISCRIMINATION WITH
TWO FEMALE ARAB STUDENTS BEING
ASKED BY ZIONIST ORGANIZATIONS
ON NOVEMBER 17TH ZAINAB MY
DAUGHTER PARTICIPATED IN THE
PROTEST AT THE RUBAN
ADMINISTRATION BUILDING WHERE
STUDENTS WERE BLOCKED FROM
ENTERING DURING BUSINESS HOURS.
SOME STUDENTS WERE ABLE TO GET
IN BUT AS MY DAUGHTER ENTERED
SHE HIJAB PULLED WAS GRABBED BY
POLICE AND SLAMMED TO THE
GROUND AND COVID VIDEOS OF THE
INCIDENT CIRCULATED ON SOCIAL
MEDIA.
IMAGINE MY RAGE AS HER MOTHER
WHEN I SAW HOW SHE WAS TREATED
BY OFFICERS WHO ARE PAID BY OUR
TUITION DOLLARS.
NOW IMAGINE MOTHERS IN
PALESTINE WATCHING IN HORROR AS
THEIR CHILDREN ARE KILLED IN
FRONT THEIR EYES OR ARRESTED BY
THE IDF WITHOUT CHARGE AND
CARTED OFF TO ROT IN ISRAELI
JAILS FUNDED BY OUR TAX DOLLARS
TWENTY ONE THOUSAND SIX HUNDRED
FOURTEEN.
DO YOU KNOW WHAT THAT NUMBER
STANDS FOR AS THE POPULATION
OF LIPSIUS A CITY RIGHT NEXT TO
US NOW IMAGINE THAT A GENOCIDAL
REGIME IS BOMBARDING IPSI SO
THAT NOT A SINGLE CIVILIAN
REMAINED AND THE SAME REGIME
WAS THREATENING AND BOMBARDED
OUR BORDERS.
WHAT YOU JUST STAND IDLY BY AND
LET THAT HAPPEN LET ALONE
SUPPORT THIS?
I DON'T THINK SO.
WHY IS THIS ALLOWED TO
CONTINUE?
WHY WERE THE UKRAINIAN GIVEN
SUPPORT BY THIS VERY CITY
COUNCIL WHILE THE GENOCIDE IN
GAZA IS ALLOWED TO CONTINUE
BECAUSE THEY'RE BROWN ARABS AND
WE'RE WHITE HOSPITALS, SCHOOLS,
MOSQUES, CHURCHES HAVE BEEN
BOMBED.
THE FACT OF THE MATTER IS THAT
WE SHOULDN'T HAVE TO COME IN
FRONT OF YOU TO PROVE OUR
HUMANITY.
PALESTINIANS DON'T NEED TO
STAND IN FRONT OF YOU TO PROVE
THEIR HUMANITY.
THE DEATH TOLL IS TWENTY THREE
THOUSAND AND IS RISING EVERY
MINUTE.
WE DON'T CALL FOR A CEASE FIRE.
YOU KNOW IT'S SERIOUS WHEN THE
REST THE UN HAS TO STEP IN TO
VOTE ON A RESOLUTION UNITING
FOR PEACE WHEN THE US CONTINUES
TO USE ITS VETO POWER TO FUND A
GENOCIDE AND NEEDS TO DO BETTER
TO BE BETTER WE NEED TO LEAD BY
EXAMPLE AND JOIN THE OTHER
CITIES AROUND US LIKE IPSI
KINTON DEARBORNE AND MANY
OTHERS THAT HAVE SIGNED A CEASE
FIRE RESOLUTION.
THIS MADNESS HAS GOT TO STOP.
WHY DOES THIS MATTER?
THE MATTER?
WHY DO BROWN LIVES NOT MATTER
TO US?
THANK YOU.
I HAVE ONE MORE ONE MORE LEFT
.
HI MY NAME IS SIMAR.
YESTERDAY THE PRESIDENT WAS IN
A DONORS MEETING IN HE WAS
TELLING THE DONORS ACCORDING TO
CNN THAT ONCE I GIFTED
NETANYAHU AFFORDABLE AND GROWTH
AT THE BOTTOM OR AT THE TOP I
LOVE YOU BUT I DON'T AGREE WITH
A THING YOU HAD TO SAY.
THAT'S WHY SAYING IN FRONT
JACKET ON CNN THAT'S WHAT HE
SAID ABOUT NETANYAHU AND WE
KNOW THAT HE HAS NO GOOD
RELATIONSHIP NOW.
BUT LET ME SAY THIS THIS
GOVERNMENT THAT CONTROLS ISRAEL
HAS MULTIPLE PEOPLE LIKE IT.
MARVIN FREYR WHO IS THE
NATIONAL SECURITY MINISTER, HE
LIVES IN A SETTLEMENT CALLED
KIRYAT ARBA KIRYAT ARBA WHERE
AN AMERICAN GUY NAMED BENJAMIN
GOLDSTEIN WHO IS A PHYSICIAN
FROM NEW YORK MOVED THERE AND
IN FEBRUARY 25TH, 1994 HE
WALKED INTO A MOSQUE AND SHOT
DEAD TWENTY NINE PEOPLE AND
INJURED ONE HUNDRED TWENTY FIVE
THAT SERIOUS ABOUT WHERE
CURRENTLY THE MINISTER IS BEING
FEARED LIVES MODRICH LIVES
ANOTHER SETTLEMENT IN THE WEST
BANK BUT IS NOT SMALL.
IS THE FINANCE MINISTER.
THIS GOVERNMENT IS BUILT ON THE
CONCEPT OF GENOCIDE AND MOVING
THE PALESTINIANS OUT OF THE
LAND MOVING IT AND THEY ACTED
DURING THE AFTER OCTOBER SEVEN
TRADUCE MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
MILLION OF SHEKELS TO BUILD
MORE SETTLEMENTS IF THIS
GOVERNMENT AND IF BIDEN IS
SAYING THIS ABOUT NETANYAHU,
WHAT CAN WE SAY OTHER THAN HIS
HYPOCRITICAL AND WE'RE BEING
HYPOCRITICAL BY NOT TAKING
ACTION, NOT MOVING FORWARD WITH
MAKING A RESOLUTION TO CEASE
FIRE.
I LAST IT'S NOT A JOKE.
IT'S SOMETHING THAT WE NEED TO
ENTERTAIN JUST FOR
ENTERTAINMENT.
IF THIS IS MODRICH AND IT'S I
BELIEVE AND ACTUALLY THE CHIEF
OF STAFF ALSO LIVES IN THE
SETTLEMENT THESE PEOPLE IN
THEIR MIND IS THAT THEY NEED TO
MOVE THESE PEOPLE OUT OF THAT
LAND AND THAT'S WHY WHEN THEY
COMMITTED WHATEVER THEY DID IN
THE NORTHERN GAZA TO PUT PEOPLE
TO THE SOUTH AND THEN
BOMBARDMENT IN THE SOUTH
BECAUSE THEY WANT TO GO TO
SINAI MORE SINAI THEN I'M SURE
FROM SINAI THEY WENT TO JORDAN
AND THEN WHATEVER THEY WANT TO
JORDAN I MET TWO TO EGYPT.
SO THE IDEA IS WE NEED TO LOOK
AT THESE THINGS.
THESE ARE THE FACTS AND THE
KILLING AND THE DEATH.
I MEAN ALL OF US CAN SEE IT ON
TV BUT YOU KNOW, WE NEED TO
LOOK AT THIS GOVERNMENT IF I
CHECK CNN, IF THIS IS WHAT
BIDEN IS SAYING AND HE'S ACTING
OPPOSITE TO WHAT HE'S SAYING,
IT'S SO DETRIMENTAL TO OUR
NATIONAL POLICY.
WE WE ARE THE PEOPLE AND THEY
NEED TO LISTEN AND THEY'RE NOT
LISTENING TO US AND I HOPE WE
CAN LISTEN TO US AND HOPE YOU
CAN CHECK THE FACTS AND TAKE
ACTION ON THIS.
THANK YOU
.
I ASSUME ALL OF YOU HAVE HEARD
THIS AND EVEN THOUGH IT'S NOT
NEW, IT'S PRETTY HEAVY, VERY
HEAVY.
I THOUGHT ABOUT WHAT WE ARE
GOING TO DO AFTER HEARING FOR
AN HOUR THESE KINDS OF STORIES
FACTS, CONCERNS, PAIN, ANGER
AND MY FIRST STOP WAS LIKE WHAT
DO YOU DO NEXT?
MY SECOND THOUGHT WAS THAT I
DIDN'T WANT EVERYBODY TO LEAVE
AND I WAS STARTING A MEETING
JUST LIKE YOU KNOW, LIKE
NOTHING HAPPENED BECAUSE
SOMETHING DID HAPPEN.
SO I'D LIKE TO SUGGEST THAT WE
SPEND ABOUT THREE MINUTES JUST
TAKING IT ALL IN AND
UNDERSTANDING NOT NOT FIGHTING
,NOT REACTING, NOT TRYING TO
HEAR PEOPLE.
WE'VE GOT SOME DO WE'VE GOT
LOTS OF DIFFERENT THINGS THAT
WERE SAID.
ALL OF THEM WERE VALUABLE
IMPORTANT THINGS AND A LOT
OF THEM WERE VERY PAINFUL
THINGS GOING ON FOR SIXTY FIVE
DAYS.
WE WANT ACTION.
WE DON'T WANT TO SIT HERE AND
TAKE IT.
WE'VE BEEN TAKING IT
.
WE HAVE TO GET IT FOR SIXTY
FIVE DAYS AND YOU HAVE POINT
OF SCREAMING OUT I'M GOING TO
PLEASE SIT DOWN YOU HAVE TO FAR
AS YOU SCREAM OUT IN THE MIDDLE
SOMEWHERE LET'S TAKE A MOMENT
OF SILENCE AND THEN WE CAN GO
ON THE SILENCE PLEASE.
WE DON'T NEED MORE SIDE WE NEED
ACTION IF YOU SISTER I HAVE TO
SAY OR TAKE A MINUTE IF WILL GO
ON FOREVER.
I'VE BEEN HERE FOR TWENTY YEARS
.
I'M GOING TO HAVE TO ASK YOU OK
WE HAVE TO PUSH THEM OR THEY
WILL DO NOTHING IF NOT HELPING
US PLEASE PLEASE ALL I WILL SAY
THAT YOU'RE HURTING.
I'VE GOT NO RELATIONSHIP.
DON'T PLEASE OR YES LET ME DO
THIS QUIET.
WHAT DO YOU HAVE DONE HONEY
LET'S LET'S HAVE A MOMENT
OF SILENCE FIRST THEN YOU WILL
HEAR WHAT ALMOST I UNDERSTAND
THE FRUSTRATION THAT WE'VE BEEN
SCREAMING ABOUT THIS SCREAMING
WE GREW UP YOU DON'T WANT TO
GET THROUGH THIS DOES NOT
UNDERSTAND THAT WHAT WE'RE
LOOKING AT EVERY DAY EVERY
SINGLE DAY WE HAVE TO SCREAM
THAT NOBODY IS LISTENING.
OK, NOBODY WE ARE LOOKING FOR
YET BECAUSE YOU CAN JUST FEEL
VERY SORRY YOU GO HOME.
IT IS NOT SITTING ON THIS
RESPONSIBILITY TO TAKE SOME
ACTION.
OK, I'M GOING TO GO WITH AND I
ALSO WANT TO SAY THAT IT'S NOT
ONLY AFFECTING PALESTINE BUT
ALSO LEBANON
.
WE HAVE A BOMB WITH PHOSPHORUS
CHEMICALS.
WHAT IF WE DID ISRAEL OK OK SO
LET'S LET'S HEAR FROM AISHA
ABOUT SOMETHING ONE OF THE
THINGS THAT THEY'RE THINKING
ABOUT DOING WHERE THEY'RE GOING
TO PLEASE SIT DOWN AND LISTEN.
WE I KNOW THAT THERE'S A LOT
OF PAIN IN THE ROOM AND I JUST
I WANT TO THANK YOU ALL FOR
COMING AND FOR AGAIN SHARING
YOUR STORY.
SO I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT AND
I'VE PREVIOUSLY STATED THIS AND
I WANT TO SAY IT AGAIN THAT I'M
UNEQUIVOCALLY IN SUPPORT OF AN
UNCONDITIONAL CEASE FIRE A
PERMANENT CEASE FIRE IN
PALESTINE.
I TRY TO SAY THAT THE LAST
MEETING I DON'T THINK IT WAS
HEARD.
THAT'S MY VIEW.
I JOINED OTHER ELECTED
OFFICIALS IN LANSING LABOR
UNIONS, A NUMBER OF CITIES
ACROSS MICHIGAN AND CALLING FOR
A LASTING CEASE FIRE AND FOR
HUMANITARIAN AID.
I CONDEMN THE HORRIFIC ACTS
THAT HAPPENED ON OCTOBER 7TH.
MY HEART BREAKS FOR ALL THE
FAMILIES AS WELL AS MY JEWISH
FRIENDS NEIGHBORS.
I PRAY FOR THE SAFE RETURN
OF ALL HOSTAGES.
ATTACKS MUST END.
I TOO CONDEMN THE PROTESTS THAT
HAPPEN IN OUR COMMUNITY IN
FRONT OF SYNAGOGUES.
THIS IS WRONG.
WE CAN'T EQUATE THE ACTIONS
OF A POLITICAL GOVERNMENT OR A
REGIME WITH AN ENTIRE RELIGION
OR ETHNIC GROUP.
THIS IS TRUE OF ISRAEL AND THE
JEWISH PEOPLE AND THIS IS ALSO
TRUE WITH PALESTINE AND HAMAS.
AS OF TODAY MORE THAN EIGHTEEN
THOUSAND PALESTINIANS HAVE DIED
INCLUDING ALMOST TEN THOUSAND
CHILDREN.
THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION
REPORTS WIDESPREAD INFECTIOUS
DISEASE ACROSS PALESTINE, LACK
OF WATER, FOOD AND MEDICINE.
I KNOW THAT THIS IS ALSO A
LOCAL ISSUE.
HUMANITY IS AN EVERYWHERE ISSUE
RIGHT?
I KNOW THAT THERE'S RAMPANT
INFRINGEMENTS HAPPENING ON
CIVIL RIGHTS AND THERE'S
DISCRIMINATION THAT'S HAPPENING
HERE TO BOTH GROUPS BEYOND
CIVIL RIGHTS INFRINGEMENT.
I ALSO KNOW THAT PEOPLE ARE
LOSING LOVED ONES HERE TODAY I
SPENT PART OF MY DAY HELPING MY
BROTHER'S BEST FRIEND GET HIS
FAMILY OUT OF GAZA.
IT'S TRAGIC AND THAT'S WHAT YOU
HAVE DONE.
YOU HAVE ACTUALLY DONE NO,
PLEASE STOP TO STOP IT.
WHAT HAVE
IT'S GOING TO BE WHEN
AM I ABLE TO FINISH?
ARE YOU DOING WITH CENTERING
YOURSELF?
BECAUSE RIGHT NOW I WANT TO
SPEAK TO THE PAIN AND TO THE
COMMUNITIES.
SO IF YOU'RE DONE WITH
PERFORMING AND CENTERING
YOURSELF THEN I WILL GO AHEAD.
I HAVE BEEN WORKING ON A CEASE
FIRE RESOLUTION AND I'M
CONTINUING TO WORK ON ONE.
I'M BEING JOINED BY COUNCIL
LYNN AND JOINED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER ERIKA BRIGG'S.
I'M HOPING WILL COME ON MONDAY.
I JOIN OTHER ELECTED OFFICIALS
IN THE CITY AND OUR STATE AND
OUR NATION.
THEY'RE CALLING FOR THIS AND I
SUPPORT THE UN GENERAL ASSEMBLY
CALL FOR A CEASEFIRE.
I HOPE THAT OUR COMMUNITY CAN
COME TOGETHER AND SUPPORT PEACE
BOTH ABROAD AND AT HOME
.
SO COUNCIL MEMBER AISHA EDWYN
IS THE ONLY COUNCIL MEMBER WITH
FAMILY WHO IS WHO'S HEARING
YOUR EXPERIENCES DIFFERENTLY
THAN ONLY ANY OTHER CITY
COUNCIL MEMBER AND I THANK HER
FOR HAVING THESE CONVERSATIONS
BECAUSE THEY'RE PAINFUL.
THEY COME WITH FROM WITHIN
FAMILY.
SO I KNOW THERE'S FRUSTRATION
WITH YOUR ELECTED LEADERS IN
NOT RESPONDING TO YOUR CALLS TO
ACTION.
BUT I WOULDN'T I WOULDN'T
SUGGEST THAT WE HAVEN'T TAKEN
SERIOUSLY AND THAT WE HAVEN'T
HEARD YOUR PAIN.
I I'VE APPROACHED THIS YOU KNOW
,LIKE VERY TECHNICAL WAYS
MEANING THAT, YOU KNOW, OUR
PURVIEW HERE.
THIS CITY COUNCIL IS WITHIN ANN
ARBOR A LOT OF US WHO CAN'T WHO
SIT AT THIS TABLE AS VOLUNTEERS
AND CAME TO PUBLIC SERVICE ARE
RESPONDING TO THE PAIN AND
SUFFERING THAT WE SEE HERE
WITHIN OUR COMMUNITIES WITH OUR
HOMELESSNESS WE HAVE DOUBLE THE
NUMBER OF HOMELESS FAMILIES
THIS YEAR COMPARED TO LAST
YEAR.
RIGHT.
I AM WORKING ON TRYING TO SEE
IF WE CAN FIND PUBLIC PROPERTY,
A CITY BUILDING SO THAT WE CAN
HOUSE HOMELESS FAMILIES BEFORE
IT GETS TOO COLD.
THERE IS WORK THAT HAPPENS IN
THIS BUILDING IN ALL CITY
BUILDINGS EVERY SINGLE DAY FOR
THE CARE AND SAFETY FOR OUR
RESIDENTS AT THIS PARTICULAR
TABLE IT'S ABOUT DISCRIMINATION
AND AN ORDINANCE THAT IS YOU
KNOW, AT THE TIME HAS BEEN
CHALLENGED OVER AND OVER AGAIN
WHERE THERE IS AN ISSUE IN THAT
NOT TOO LONG AGO OF WHETHER,
YOU KNOW, LGBTQ RIGHTS SHOULD
BE PROTECTED UNDER THIS
ORDINANCE.
IT'S BEEN CHALLENGED
POLITICALLY.
THE DISCUSSIONS THAT HAPPENED
AT THIS TABLE HAVE HAPPENED TO
AFFECT OUR NEIGHBORS AND OUR
LOVED ONES HERE, OUR
COLLEAGUES, OUR CHILDREN.
BUT IT DOESN'T MEAN THAT WE'RE
IMMUNE TO THE SUFFERING
OF FAMILIES THAT WE'VE LEFT
BEHIND.
I AND I COME FROM GENERATIONS
OF REFUGEES RIGHT.
WE KNOW WHAT WAR CAN MEAN AND
THE SUFFERING OF WAR I HAD
MENTIONED AT THE PREVIOUS CITY
COUNCIL MEETING MY MOTHER WAS
IN A PRISON CAMP BEFORE SHE WAS
PLACED IN A REFUGEE CAMP.
MY MY GRANDFATHER WAS
ELECTROCUTED BY THE FRENCH WHEN
HE WAS TRYING TO FIGHT
COLONIALISM.
MY YOU KNOW, WE ALL HAVE
STORIES OF INDISCRIMINATE PAIN
OF WAR AND SUFFERING AND
TRAGEDY.
BUT WE ARE HERE, YOU KNOW, TO
START ANEW.
WE ARE HERE TO TRY TO FIGURE
OUT A BETTER WAY, BETTER WAY, A
BETTER PATH TOWARDS PEACE FOR
OUR CHILDREN AND OUR NEIGHBORS.
I AM SORRY WE DON'T HAVE THE
POWER OF CONGRESS.
YOU KNOW, I MADE A COMMENT THAT
WE'RE NOT EVEN A MODEL U.N. WE
ARE NOT UN HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION.
WE DON'T CONVENE WITH THE UN
BUT THE HOPES THAT WE HAVE
HERE, THE ISSUES AND THE
COMPLAINTS THAT WE TRY TO
RESOLVE HERE ARE SUPPOSED TO BE
MORE IMMEDIATE.
IT IS NEIGHBOR TALKING TO
NEIGHBOR SAYING I HEAR YOU, I
WANT TO HELP YOU.
IT IS NOT GOING BUREAUCRACY.
IT IS NOT GOING TO THE POLITICS
OF PARTIES.
IT IS NOT GOING TO BE MEMBERS
OF CONGRESS.
IT'S SUPPOSED TO BE MORE
IMMEDIATE, MORE IMPACTFUL.
THE MONEY HERE THAT WE COLLECT
AS TAXES I KNOW FOLKS HAVE
MENTIONED THAT WE ARE FUNDING
MILITARY ARMS CITY TAXES ONLY
TWENTY FOUR STATES TWENTY FOUR
PERCENT OF OUR TAXES STAY
WITHIN HERE TO TO OPERATE OUR
CITY SERVICES.
OVER 30 PERCENT GOES TO
EDUCATION.
YOU KNOW, IN OUR CITY TO STAY
WITHIN THE CITY EXCEPT FOR THE
MONEY THAT WE ARE THE ONLY
MUNICIPALITY THAT GIVES GENERAL
FUND DOLLARS TO THE COUNTY FOR
SOCIAL SERVICES, PITTSFIELD
TOWNSHIP, ALL THE OTHER
TOWNSHIPS IPSI DO NOT GIVE
MONEY FOR OUR HOMELESSNESS AND
TO SERVE OTHERS WE COMMIT TO
SERVING OTHERS.
THAT'S THE ONLY WAY WE WILL
EXTEND OUR PUBLIC OUR DOLLARS
AND CARE BEYOND OUR CITY
BOUNDARIES.
BUT WE DO NOT THE THE MONEY
THAT THAT'S A SEPARATE CHECK
YOU YOU YOU CUT FOR FEDERAL AND
I SAY THAT TO MAKE TO BE CLEAR
BECAUSE WHEN WE DO OUR WORK
HERE, OUR BUDGETING IS ALWAYS
BEEN PRIORITIZED FOR THE POOR
FOLKS WHO'VE BEEN ELECTED TO
WORKING HERE ON SOCIAL SERVICES
AND JUSTICE AND EQUITY ON
POLICE BUDGET AND UNARMED
CRISIS RESPONSE THAT'S
MEANINGFUL THAT HAS NOT
HAPPENED IN DECADES.
OUR PREDECESSORS ARGUED SO THAT
THEY COULD MY PREDECESSOR
WANTED COLUMBUS DAY AND
INDIGENOUS PEOPLES DAY TO BE
CELEBRATED WHEN SHE SAID THAT
SHE THOUGHT THEY WERE THE SAME
RIGHT.
SO WE'VE WE'VE STRUGGLED TO
HAVE CONVERSATIONS IN THIS
COMMUNITY ON RACE EQUITY WHEN
WE TALK ABOUT BLACK LIVES
MATTER IT WASN'T JUST BECAUSE
THE MAYOR PUT THE FLAG IN FRONT
OF CITY HALL.
IT MEANT THAT WE HAD
PROGRAMMATIC WAYS TO RESPOND
DIRECTLY TO THAT RACISM IS A
PUBLIC HEALTH CRISIS AND THAT'S
WHAT THE CITY HAS APPROVED AND
THAT'S WHAT THE COUNTY HAD
AFFIRMED THAT MEANT WE USE
COVID DOLLARS TO MAKE SURE THAT
BLACK LIVES MATTER IN REAL WAYS
IN THE BUDGET AND STAFFED AND
AND THAT WE DO NOT COMMIT MORE
HARM TO OUR RESIDENTS RIGHT.
SO YOU WANT US TO MAKE A
STATEMENT BUT THAT STATEMENT
HAS TO BE MEANINGFUL AND IT HAS
IT'S REVIEWED BY OUR LEGAL
STAFF FOR THE EXPERTIZE THAT WE
HAVE HERE.
WE DON'T HAVE FOREIGN AFFAIRS
EXPERTIZE TO CHECK US AND OUR
STATEMENTS.
SO AGAIN, I JUST WANT TO FROM
THAT OUR POWER IS LIMITED.
IT DOESN'T MEAN THAT WE DON'T
CARE AND IT DOESN'T MEAN THAT
WE'RE NOT EMPATHETIC TO THIS
AND IT DOESN'T MEAN THAT WE
HAVEN'T HAD CONVERSATIONS WITH
OTHER ELECTED LEADERS BECAUSE
WE ARE ALSO CONSTITUENTS.
WE ALSO VOTED FOR OUR
CONGRESSIONAL REPS AND OUR
SENATORS.
SO WHEN I SAID WE HAD
CONVERSATIONS WITH COMMUNITY
MEMBERS YOU I WOULD HOPE THAT
YOU WOULD BE ABLE TO HAVE
CONVERSATIONS IN THIS AUDIENCE
.
YOU ARE SITTING NEXT TO EACH
OTHER BUT YOU ARE TURNING OUR
BACKS TO EACH OTHER.
YOU'RE ROOTING AGAINST EACH
OTHER AS EACH ONE COMES UP TO
THIS PODIUM AND THEN YOU GO
HOME AND YOUR KIDS ARE IN THE
SAME SPACES.
WHAT DOES IT TELL OUR KIDS?
YOU COME HERE AND YOU ASK
PUBLIC LEADERS TO MAKE A
DIFFERENT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE
AND WE TRY TO EVERY DAY RIGHT.
BUT I WOULD LOVE IT IF YOU TURN
TO EACH OTHER AND HAD FRANK
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT THE PAINT
THE POSTERS THAT YOU'RE HOLDING
RIGHT.
SO THE OTHER AND LASTLY IF I
CAN JUST SAY IF YOU WANT TO BE
AN EFFECTIVE ORGANIZER, WHAT
KIND OF THERE ARE PEOPLE
REMAINING HERE.
THERE ARE PEOPLE REMAINING HERE
WHO HAVEN'T LEFT.
I I BROUGHT THIS SOUNDS TRIVIAL
BUT IT'S MEANINGFUL AS AN
ELECTED BECAUSE IT IS VERY HARD
TO UNDERSTAND BUREAUCRACY AND
WHO DOES WHAT WHEN FOR WHOM
RIGHT.
IT'S THERE.
THIS IS THE WASHINGTON COUNTY
DIRECTORY OF ELECTED LEADERS
NOT
SO GENERAL IS USED TO
DEALING WITH HER FRIEND.
I HAVE A CONVERSATION AND THERE
IS LITERALLY I WE CAN'T TALK TO
EVERYONE.
I UNDERSTAND THAT.
YES, BECAUSE TALKING SO I I AND
I ARE BOTH SOCIAL WORKERS.
WE'VE BEFORE WE CAME TO THIS
AMAZING OPPORTUNITY BECAUSE
YOUR ELECTED YEAH.
A LOT TO UNDERSTAND WHO DOES
WHAT WHEN.
SO I KNOW THIS IS TRIVIAL BUT
IT IS IT MIGHT BE HELPFUL TO
SOMEONE AND THAT'S WHY WE SO
THERE'S THESE ARE DIRECTORIES
OF YOUR ELECTED LEADERS WHO
REPRESENT WHERE CONSTITUENCY
THAN WE DO AND I HAVE THESE
WERE YOU THAT'S AVAILABLE SO I
KNOW THIS WILL COME UP FOR CITY
COUNCIL.
WE THE CITY COUNCIL MEETING ON
MONDAY.
THIS IS THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION.
WE HAVE AN AGENDA TO ADDRESS
THE HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION
ORDINANCE WORK AND I KNOW OUR
CHAIR WILL CONTINUE ON THAT AND
I KNOW I'LL SEE YOU AGAIN ON
MONDAY WHEN WE ACTUALLY DO CITY
COUNCIL WORK WITH ITS OWN
AGENDA AND I KNOW THERE ARE
OTHER COUNCIL MEMBERS WHO WILL
HAVE HOPEFULLY WE CAN HAVE
SOMETHING TO DISCUSS TO THE
WELL FIRST IT HAS TO BE
PROPOSED RIGHT.
AND THEN IF IT'S TOO LATE PRIOR
TO THE MEETING DATE, I NEED TO
HAVE A COUPLE NUMBER
OF SPONSORS.
ONE OF THEM IS SITTING RIGHT
THERE IF YOU DON'T HAVE ENOUGH
SPONSORS IT DOESN'T GET TO THE
AGENDA.
SO THAT'S PART OF THE PROCESS.
JUST ONE SECOND BECAUSE I WANT
TO FINISH MY RESPONSE.
WHAT COUNCIL MEMBER SONG WAS
SAYING IS THAT THERE'S PAIN IN
THIS ROOM ON BOTH SIDES AND IT
HAS TO BE ACKNOWLEDGED WE ARE
NOT SITTING IN THE SEATS NEXT
TO YOU.
WE DON'T HEAR COMMENTS BEING
SAID NO ONE IS BOTH SIDES
SAYING ANYTHING.
THERE ARE MEMBERS OF THE JEWISH
COMMUNITY WHO ARE ALSO IN PAIN
.
I AM NOT DENYING THE ATROCITIES
I AM NOT THERE.
.
I AM NOT DENYING THE ATROCITIES
I AM NOT THERE.
THAT THAT ARE HAPPENING IN
I AM NOT DENYING THE ATROCITIES
PALESTINE.
THAT THAT ARE HAPPENING IN
WE DON'T EVEN REALLY KNOW WHAT
PALESTINE.
HAPPENED AFTERWARDS.
WE DON'T EVEN REALLY KNOW WHAT
THAT IS TO INVESTIGATE BOTH
HAPPENED AFTERWARDS.
SIDES
OF I THINK WE NEED TO
CLOSE THIS DISCUSSION.
I GET IN A BACK AND FORTH RIGHT
NOW.
YOU CAN CONTACT ME.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR COMING.
I THAT'S WHAT I'M TRYING TO DO
BUT I'M IN THAT'S WHAT WE'RE
HOPING.
YEAH THAT'S WHAT WE'RE WORKING
TOWARDS THE DAY.
THANK YOU FOR COMING TO
APPRECIATE WHAT A GREAT THIS IS
WHAT YOU SAYING AND YOU'VE GOT
YOU'VE MADE SOME PROGRESS.
THERE ARE SOME PEOPLE HAVE
HEARD YOU, WE'VE HEARD YOU AND
WE ARE GOING TO BE ALSO TALKING
ABOUT WHAT WE CAN DO THAT WOULD
BE MOST EFFECTIVE.
WE CARE ABOUT THE EFFECTIVENESS
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE KNOW
IS THAT A RESOLUTION IS RARELY
EFFECTIVE BUT THERE ARE THINGS
WE CAN DO HERE AND IT'S A
POSSIBILITY THAT THAT MAY BE
PART OF THE SOLUTION OF THINGS
WE COULD DO.
BUT THERE ARE THINGS WE CAN DO
HERE, ESPECIALLY DEALING WITH
ISLAM, ISLAMIC PHOBIA,
ANTI-SEMITISM AND THE WAY
PEOPLE ARE TREATED FOR THE
BELIEFS THAT THEY HAVE
POLITICAL BELIEFS THEY HAVE
NOT.
WE CERTAINLY CAN DO AND WE CAN
ALSO DEAL WITH YOUR COMPLAINTS
WHEN YOU FILE THEM.
PLEASE KEEP KEEP US IN MIND LET
US KNOW WHAT'S GOING ON, WHAT
IS BOTHERING YOU, WHY ARE SO
CONCERNED WHAT WE CAN WE'RE
LOOKING FOR PLACES TO INTERVENE
WHERE WE CAN BE EFFECTIVE.
WE WANT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE.
WE DON'T WANT TO JUST DO THINGS
BECAUSE WE SHOULD DO THEM.
WE FEEL YOUR PAIN.
WE HEAR ABOUT WE HEAR WHAT
YOU'RE SAYING AND I REALLY
VALUE THE FACT I APPRECIATE THE
FACT THAT YOU SPENT YOUR TIME
YOUR EVENING WITH US.
THANK YOU FOR COMING IN HERE
.
WE'RE GOING TO GO ON WITH OUR
REGULAR MEETING.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WATCH OUR AGENDA IN THE FUTURE
.
I THINK YOU'LL SEE SOME THINGS
YOU MIGHT BE INTERESTED IN.
THANK YOU.
YES, I KNOW.
OK FOR FREE SHE'S SLIPPING AWAY
AND YEAH BUT WE'RE GOING TO
TAKE A FIVE MINUTE BREAK.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
BE BACK IN FIVE WAS REFERENCING
CNN DOT COM.
YES, YES.
PLEASE CHECK
OUR MEETING
.
>> OK JUST STAY
FIRST THING ON
THE AGENDA AND GOT A PRODUCTION
CHALLENGE FOR THE AGENDA.
CAN WE HAVE A MOTION TO PROVE
THE AGENDA?
MOTION TO PROVE GUILT CENTER.
I HAVE A MOTION TO ADD AN ITEM.
OK, WHAT WOULD YOU LIKE TO
DISCUSS JUST ONE SECOND.
I'M SORRY OF THE MEETING HAS
BEGUN IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO HAVE
THE CONVERSATIONS OUTSIDE
OF THE MEETING PLEASE DO SO
WE
STOP HAVING CONVERSATIONS SO
THAT WE COULD MEET I'M SORRY WE
CAN'T WE CAN'T MEET WITH
EVERYBODY TALKING.
YES THANK YOU.
NO PROBLEM.
OK, ON THE FLOOR IS A MOTION TO
ADD TO ADD A SOMETHING TO THE
AGENDA SARAH
AND A
CLARIFICATION DO YOU WANT THAT
TO BE ADDED UNDER CITY COUNCIL
UPDATE WOULD BE AN UPDATE FROM
THE COUNCIL COMMISSIONERS ABOUT
HOW WE SUPPORTED
ANY DISCUSSION
AND WHERE IS BECAUSE HE'S NOT
BACK WE STILL HAVE TO DO YEAH.
ALL IN FAVOR OF THAT.
OK HERE.
SO WHY DON'T YOU SAY IT AGAIN
ADD TO THE FACT THAT ARE YOU
SHOWING OFF FOR IF WE WANTED TO
DO ANYTHING IN SUPPORT OF IT,
ANY DISCUSSION ALL IN FAVOR?
WE MADE THE MOTION IN THE YEAH.
THE SECOND SECOND NO SECOND ONE
SECOND OK SECOND ALL IN FAVOR
OF AIR.
WE ARE IMPROVING THE AGENDA
WITH THE WITH CHANGES.
YEAH OK ALL IN FAVOR.
I POST OK IT'S ON APPROVAL
OF THE OCT MINUTES WE CAN WE
HAVE A MOTION MOTION TO APPROVE
THE OCTOBER AND NOVEMBER
NOVEMBER MINUTES RIGHT AFTER
NOVEMBER.
I JUST MISS GOOD MYSELF
SECOND
YOU SECOND HAND I FAVOR POST
IT'S YOUR APPROVED FOLLOW UP
DISCUSSION ON OUTSIDE GROUP
WORK CITY COUNCIL ISSUE.
LET'S START WITH THE THINGS
THAT ARE NOT THIS AND WITH THE
RESOLUTION PROPOSED RESOLUTION
I HAVE MADE NO PROGRESS.
I'VE MADE NO PROGRESS SINCE WE
WERE IN THE BASEMENT TALKING
ABOUT FACIAL RECOGNITION I
THINK I'VE GOT A BOOK I WAS
SUPPOSED TO FOLLOW UP WITH
COUNCILMAN HARRISON AND OUR
CITY PROSECUTOR COMBINING THE
LANGUAGE FROM THE ACLU WHAT THE
ACLU IS PROPOSING AND WHAT
WE'VE OUR LAST VERSION WAS AS A
RESOLUTION VERSUS AN ORDINANCE
REVIEW.
SO I MY APOLOGIES AGAIN.
OK, WE LOOK INTO IT NEXT TIME.
YEAH.
I MEAN I REALIZE I'M KIND
OF BUSY AND I JUST GOTTEN
BUSIER.
WHAT OTHER IS THERE ANYTHING
ELSE GOING ON IN CITY COUNCIL
WE SHOULD KNOW ABOUT THAT WE
MIGHT NOT SUPPORT I MEAN THE
HOUSING SITUATION IS REALLY
ROUGH RIGHT NOW.
WE REALLY, REALLY LOVE ROGER
HOMELESSNESS.
YEAH WE HAVE OUR HOUSING
COMMISSIONER IS LOOKING CITY
LAW CITY BUILDING THAT THAT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN HAD
VACATED THE DENTAL CLINIC.
OH YEAH.
SO IF THAT CAN POSSIBLY BE
CONVERTED TO HOUSING FOR
FAMILIES BECAUSE WE NEED WE
NEED LIKE BIGGER UNITS AND IT'S
REALLY DIFFICULT TO FIND THAT
IN THE COUNTY AND I THINK ALPHA
HOUSE ONLY I THINK IT'S ONLY
THIRTEEN FAMILIES CAN BE
TEMPORARY SHELTER AND WE'VE GOT
WE'RE EXPECTING SIX HUNDREDS
AND THEN SIX IN THE COUNTY.
SO THIS TIME LAST YEAR THERE IS
ABOUT THREE HUNDRED AND FIFTY
AND NOW WE'RE OVER SIX HUNDRED
WHO WILL BE HOMELESS THIS THIS
THE SEASON.
SO THERE'S QUITE AN EMERGENCY.
THE COUNTY HAD APPROVED OVER
TWO MILLION IN EVICTION
AVOIDANCE RELIEF AND THEY FOUND
THAT IN THIS PAST APRIL THIS
PAST APRIL WHERE CITY COUNCIL
HAD DID A HALF MILLION A BUNCH
AN AMENDMENT TO HELP FOLKS WHO
ARE IN HOTELS TEMPORARILY FIND
LONGER SHELTER.
WE FOUND THAT ONE THE EFFORTS
WAS FOR EIGHT HUNDRED DOLLARS
OR TWO.
FOUR HUNDRED DOLLARS A MONTH
CHECKS WAS ABLE TO PREVENT I
THINK LIKE THIRTY PERCENT FROM
RETURNING TO HOMELESSNESS.
SO THERE ARE SOME POTENTIAL IN
BEING ABLE TO DIVERT THE
HUNDREDS INTO OTHER OTHER WAYS
FOR NOT JUST WAIT FOR A
TEMPORARY SHELTERS.
SO HOUSING IS STILL HUMAN,
RIGHT?
YES IT IS AND IT'S A HUMAN
VIEW.
WHERE ARE THEY GOING TO STILL
HOUSE PEOPLE IN HOTELS YOU
THINK IS THERE A PLAN TO DO
THAT?
I THINK SO.
IT'S JUST EXPENSIVE.
IT'S REALLY EXPENSIVE.
OH, AND THERE'S A NEW HIRE FOR
THE OFFICE OF ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT.
SO TONY AYUMI WHO IS THE
DIRECTOR OF THE YMCA IS THE NEW
DIRECTOR.
SO HOPEFULLY THERE WILL BE SOME
TRACTION IN TRYING TO FIGURE
OUT FUNDING FOR EMERGENCY
HOUSING WORK AND THEN SOCIAL
SERVICES AS WELL AS ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT.
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT IS VERY
DIFFERENT FROM THAT.
IT'S IN THE SAME OFFICE.
YEAH, THE COUNTY OFFICE
OF ECONOMIC AND COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT IS THE ONE WHO
FIGURES OUT THE COUNTY FUNDING
FOR SOCIAL SERVICES AND
DEVELOPMENT.
I MISSED THE LAST COUNCIL
MEETING BECAUSE WE HAD TWO
VIRUSES GOING THROUGH MY HEALTH
THROUGH MY HOSPITAL AND I'M
FINE AND I'M NOT I DON'T I'M
NOT BRINGING THE PLAGUE TO THE
COMMISSION BUT I WAS THERE SO
YOU CAN GIVE THE UPDATE FROM
FROM LAST MONDAY, RIGHT.
I WISH I COULD REMEMBER RIGHT
NOW THERE'S JUST SO MUCH
HAPPENED I CAN'T REALLY
REMEMBER.
YES, I GUESS I'M THE BACK OR
SOMETHING SOMETHING THAT WE
WERE IS THAT YOU KNOW, HELP TO
SUPPORT CREATE IT WAS GOING TO
BE ON THE AGENDA.
I THINK IT MIGHT STILL ACTUALLY
BE ON THE AGENDA FOR NEXT
MONDAY BUT I AM LIKELY GOING TO
ASK THE CLERK TO PUSH IT TO
JANUARY BECAUSE THE NEXT
MEETING WILL ALSO PROBABLY
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE THE SOCIAL
WORK CLASS DO A PRESENTATION.
VERY GOOD REASON I INVITED THEM
TO COME BECAUSE IT WAS THEIR
RESEARCH THAT REALLY HELPED TO
IDENTIFY IT.
WE COULD GET OUR EXPECTATIONS
OF CONTRACTORS IN LINE WITH
WHAT WE EXPECT AS OUR OWN
HIRING PRACTICES AS A CITY.
SO I WOULD REALLY LIKE TO SEE
THE PURCHASING AGENT.
I THINK THIS IS THIS IS A
LOGISTICAL REASON WHY IT SHOULD
ALSO BE DELAYED AS HUMAN RIGHTS
AS A COMMISSION ALSO NEEDS TO
FIGURE OUT HOW ARE WE GOING TO
HAVE A PART IN HELPING TO
PROMOTE THIS?
WHAT IS OUR ROLE IN THIS?
IT'S SOMETHING THAT I WAS ASKED
BY THE CITY ATTORNEY'S OFFICE
AND LINDA, I THINK YOU AND I
HAVE DISCUSSED BEFORE IT'S NOT
OUR PLACE TO NECESSARILY SAY IS
YOUR EMPLOYEE ASKING FOR IT?
THAT'S NOT WITHIN THE PROVISION
OF THE HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION.
I THINK IT'S SOMETHING WE ALSO
HAD TO TALK TO BECAUSE IT
SOUNDS LIKE THEY WANT US TO BE
THE ENFORCER OF THIS WITH
ENFORCEABLE BY BOX OF FAIR
HOUSING.
YEAH, THIS KIND OF THING.
SO I THINK SOMEBODY HAS
MENTIONED TO ME THAT THEY
WEREN'T THEY WERE THINKING THAT
WE WOULD BE THE WILL BE AN
AFFIDAVIT CONTRACTORS ALREADY
SIGNED SAYING THAT WE DON'T
DISCRIMINATE AGAINST X Y AND
THEN WE ALSO DON'T ASK ABOUT
CRIMINAL LEGAL HISTORY UNTIL AN
OFFER IS MADE AND THEN A
BACKGROUND CHECK IS CONDUCTED
SO IT PUSHES EVERYTHING TO THE
LEFT.
SO IT'S REALLY JUST AN
AFFIDAVIT WHERE THEY SIGN IT
AND WE HAVE TO PUT FAITH IN IT.
I THINK THOUGH IT HELPS TO
DEMONSTRATE OUR VALUES AS A
CITY SO THAT'S IMPORTANT TO US.
IT ALSO WILL IF WE YOU IF WE
ARE ABLE TO HELP PROMOTE IT, IF
WE EDUCATE PEOPLE AND AS WE ALL
DID A VERY GOOD JOB
OF EDUCATION TALKING HOW IT
IMPACTS EVERY CITIZEN IS IN FOR
EXAMPLE.
YEAH, YEAH.
AND I HAD LIKE RIGHT NOW MY
GUESS IS PURCHASING ISN'T SOLD
AND ISN'T GOING TO PUSH IT THE
WAY WE WOULD.
I KNOW I THINK THAT THEY
THEY'RE OK WITH THAT.
WHAT THEIR ADVICE HAS BEEN IS
THAT THERE WILL BE A LETTER IN
THE RFP PACKET I BELIEVE THAT
IS JUST GOING TO SIMPLY EXPLAIN
THAT THESE ARE THE NEW
STANDARDS AND WHAT MICHELLE
LANDIS ASKED IN ADDITION, IS
THERE ANY OTHER WAYS THAT WE AS
A COMMISSION WILL PROMOTE THIS
NEW STANDARD?
SO THAT'S SOMETHING THAT WE
SHOULD PROBABLY TALK ABOUT.
SO I HAVE ALL THE INFORMATION
BEFORE I GO TO COUNCIL AND WE
AMENDING OUR FLIER TO INCLUDE
THAT ARE THE SAME ONCE IT'S
DONE.
ABSOLUTELY AND THE SAME THING
BECAUSE I THINK WE AMENDED IT
FOR TRESPASS RIGHT?
NO, IT'S NOT ABOUT OK
TRESPASSING ON THEIR PROPERTY
AND WE DID IT AT ONE POINT BUT
I THINK THEY'RE I THINK THEY
MAY NOT HAVE I'M NOT SURE HOW
DAVID IS BUT TO MY ORIGINAL
QUESTION WILL OUR FLIER REFLECT
THIS NEW REQUIREMENT AND IF
NOT, THEN IT SHOULD.
YES.
AND IN THIS SPEAKS TO I KEEP
BRINGING THIS UP THAT WE SHOULD
DO PUBLIC SERVICE ANNOUNCEMENTS
THROUGH IT AND WE SHOULD DO THE
AND I STARTED THIS BACK IN THE
SUMMER AND I GOT NO TAKERS SO
I'M GOING TO BRING IT UP AGAIN.
SO MAYBE THIS WOULD BE AN IDEAL
TIME FOR US TO PURSUE THAT
WHILE WE EDUCATE WE HAVE I
DON'T KNOW WHAT FORM IT WOULD
TAKE BUT WHERE WE ARE AT AT
LEAST INFORMING THE PUBLIC
ABOUT THE THINGS THAT WE HAVE
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ENSURING
COMPLIANCE AND IDEALLY WE CAN
DO IT IN A COUPLE OF WAYS.
I'VE REACHED OUT TO AND
RECEIVED APPROVAL FROM I CAN'T
THINK OF HER NAME RIGHT NOW BUT
THEY ARE WAITING ON US TO COME
TO THEM THROUGH AND SO THAT WE
CAN DO A PUBLIC SERVICE
ANNOUNCEMENT AND WE CAN DO
IDEALLY MAYBE AN INTERVIEW OR
MORE EDUCATION THAN AN
INTERVIEW KIND OF SETTING AND
THEN I'M A LITTLE FUZZY ON THE
SPECIFICS YOU NEED TO BAN THE
BOX OR MY UNDERSTANDING AND
THIS COMES FROM EEOC AND I
DON'T KNOW THAT IT IS OR ISN'T
IN THE LANGUAGE THAT WE
CURRENTLY HAVE VOTED TO BAN THE
BOX BUT THE PROHIBITION
OF EMPLOYERS AND ASKING ABOUT
THAT IS THAT AN OFFER HAS TO BE
MADE AND ACCEPTED BEFORE THE
EMPLOYER CAN THEN MOVE FORWARD
WITH NOTIFYING THE INDIVIDUAL
OF YOU KNOW THAT THEY COULD DO
A BACKGROUND CHECK.
SO IT'S NOT JUST IT'S NOT JUST
ASKING YOU KNOW WHAT I MEAN?
IT'S NOT JUST OFFERING MAKING
AN OFFER IF THE OFFER ISN'T
ACCEPTED I KNOW THAT THAT'S
EEOC STANDPOINT THAT YOU CANNOT
THEN MOVE FORWARD WITH
NOTIFICATION OF A BACKGROUND
CHECK.
IT MIGHT BE MINOR BUT IT IS
SIGNIFICANT.
YEAH, IT'S NOT UM WE HAD THIS
DISCUSSION WITH AND THE
LANGUAGE WAS CHANGED A LITTLE
BIT IN RESPONSE TO THAT CONCERN
DOESN'T ACTUALLY STATE THAT AS
A REQUIREMENT BUT IT CERTAINLY
DOESN'T ENCOURAGE THE ASKING
THOSE QUESTIONS EARLY IN THE
PROCESS RIGHT.
AND UNLESS AN OFFER IS MADE AND
SAY THAT AS AN ENVIRONMENT THAT
YOU SHOULD LOOK AT THE LANGUAGE
I DID AND THAT'S WHY I'M
BRINGING IT UP BECAUSE IT WAS
CONSPICUOUSLY ABSENT I AND I
KNOW FOR A FACT THAT THAT IS A
MANDATE THAT EEOC ENFORCES.
SO ARE OUR LANGUAGE.
IT STOPS SHORT OF THAT.
IS IT A MANDATE OR BEST
PRACTICES?
NO EEOC HAS THAT IN THEIR IN
THEIR IN THEIR LANGUAGE THAT
SAYS AN OFFER HAS BEEN MADE AND
ACCEPTED THEN THE EMPLOYER CAN
STATE OK HERE ARE THE
PROCEDURES THAT GOVERN TO MOVE
FORWARD IN THE INTERNAL OFFERS
ARE CONDITIONAL PREDICATED ON
THE OUTCOME OR THE RESULTS
OF THE THE BACKGROUND CHECK.
YES RIGHT.
BUT THE EEOC IS VERY EXPLICIT
ABOUT OFFER MADE AND ACCEPTED
BECAUSE THE POTENTIAL IS THERE
THAT AN OFFER COULD BE MADE AND
NOT ACCEPTED IN WHICH CASE THEN
THE EMPLOYER CAN NOT MOVE
FORWARD WITH THAT.
RIGHT.
IT'S ONLY SEEMS MINOR BUT TRUST
ME IT IS VERY IMPACTFUL.
SO I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
THAT'S CLEARLY COMMUNICATED AND
UNDERSTOOD EVEN THOUGH OUR
LANGUAGE DOESN'T GO INTO THAT
DETAIL.
I THINK IT'S EXPENSIVE
POTENTIALLY AND I'D LIKE I
WONDER IF ANYBODY'S LOOKED FOR
THAT EXPENSIVE INCENTIVE IN
THAT YOU SPENT AN AWFUL LOT
OF TIME GETTING A LOT OF PEOPLE
INTERVIEWING THEM.
YOU YOU MAKE A DECISION AND
OFTEN PEOPLE WOULD MAKE A
DECISION.
THEY TELL THE OTHER PEOPLE THE
JOB IS FILLED AND THEN YOU FIND
OUT THAT YOU CAN'T HIRE THE
PERSON SOMETIMES I GUESS IT
DEPENDS YOU KNOW THAT I'M IN
HUMAN RESOURCES.
I MAKE OFFERS ALL DAY LONG AND
SO CONSISTENT WITH THE
INTERVIEW AND THE PAPERWORK
THAT WE ASK INDIVIDUALS TO
COMPLETE, WE STATE HERE OUR
PROCEDURES.
WE WANT YOU TO CONSENT TO THE
BACKGROUND CHECK.
YOU ARE BEING MADE THIS OFFER
IT IS PREDICATED ON THE RESULTS
OF THE BACKGROUND CHECK
CONVICTION DOES NOT PRECLUDE
YOU FROM EMPLOYMENT.
IT IS ON A CASE BY CASE BASIS
OR IF IT YEAH.
AND THEN OF COURSE IT DEPENDS
ON THE POSITION.
SO ILLUSTRATE THAT WE MADE AN
OFFER TO A SALARY EXACTING
PERSON CONSENTED TO THE
BACKGROUND CHECK, ACCEPTED IT,
GAVE THEM THE OFFER LETTER TWO
DAYS LATER THEY DECLINED BUT
THE BACKGROUND CHECK WAS
ALREADY BACK AND THEY HAD
ALREADY CONSENTED TO IT RIGHT?
YEAH.
SO YEAH IT'S A GOOD QUESTION
AND I RAISED THAT CONCERN.
IT ISN'T IN THE LANGUAGE THE
THIS IS STILL A STEP FORWARD
BUT IT DOESN'T QUITE AS FAR AS
YOU'RE ASKING FOR.
I MEAN I SEE OUR ROLE AS
BASICALLY I MEAN HOPEFULLY THE
CITY WOULD COMMUNICATE TO THE
CONTRARY AND SOMEHOW THE
CONTRACTORS WOULD HAVE TO
BECAUSE THOSE EMPLOYEES ARE NOT
NECESSARILY IN ANN ARBOR.
THEY COULD BE ANYWHERE.
SO SOMEHOW THOSE EMPLOYEES NEED
TO KNOW THAT THE EMPLOYERS ARE
CONTRACTORS HAVE TO FOLLOW THIS
AND THEN IF THEY DO NOW AND THE
EMPLOYER IS NOT FOLLOWING THAT
THEY FILE A COMPLAINT WITH US.
THAT'S HOW I UNDERSTAND OUR
ROLE.
AND IF THE EMPLOYEES I DON'T
THINK THAT IS OUR ROLE ACTUALLY
AND THAT'S WHAT'S A LITTLE
CONFUSING FOR ME BECAUSE HOW
ARE WE GOING TO REGULATE ON THE
PRACTICES OF AN EMPLOYER
WHETHER THAT'S IN THE
NONDISCRIMINATION ORDINANCE?
YEAH, THAT'S THEN THEORETICALLY
ANY VIOLATION OF THAT SHOULD
COME TO US.
I THINK.
YEAH.
AND THE ADVANTAGE OF IT BEING
ON THE FLIER IS THAT PEOPLE SEE
THE FLIER AND OBVIOUSLY MOST
PEOPLE SEE THE FLIER OUR
EMPLOYEES ASSUMING THE CAR IS
ACTUALLY THERE AND AN EMPLOYER
CAN SAY I I INTERVIEWED FOR
THAT JOB AND I WAS ASKED THE
FIRST DAY EXAMPLE AND AND THEY
COULD COME TO US AND COMPLAIN
YEAH WE WOULD BE LIKE THE
REGULATORY ENFORCEMENT ASPECTS
BECAUSE IT WOULD THE CITY TO BE
ABLE TO CHECK EVERY EMPLOYEE OR
DO ANY ENFORCEMENT BECAUSE A
LOT MORE SO IT'S JUST US AND
YOU'RE RIGHT WE WOULD DO IT IN
THAT WAY.
BUT THERE WAS THERE WAS SOME
CONCERN ABOUT SOME OTHER CITY
POLICY OR PROCEDURE THAT YOU
NEEDED TO LOOK AT.
YOU SENT AN EMAIL WHICH IS WHY
IT WAS DELAYED BUT I DIDN'T
QUITE UNDERSTAND WHAT THAT WAS.
OK, THAT'S ALL RIGHT.
BUT I THINK THAT THIS
DEMONSTRATES THAT WE NEED A
LITTLE BIT MORE TIME.
THAT'S OK.
BUT IT'S GOOD THAT IS COME I'M
VERY EXCITED ABOUT IT.
MY AFTERNOON THEY SENT
EVERYBODY THE THE STUDENTS
DESCRIPTION OF IT AND I HOPE I
DIDN'T I DIDN'T INVITE THEM
INVITED INSTEAD TWO PEOPLE TO
GROUPS FOR ABOUT AN ARMED
RESPONSE BECAUSE BECAUSE IT WAS
SO INTERESTING THAT I HAD
QUESTIONS AND I WANTED THEM
HERE TO TALK ABOUT IT AND SO
MUCH IS HAPPENING AROUND THE
CITY.
IT'S JUST SUCH A HOT TOPIC FOR
US.
BUT BUT WE COULD HAVE THIS
GROUP TOO IF YOU IF YOU'RE
INTERESTED.
QUICK QUESTION OR COMMENT JUST
FOR CLARIFICATION.
IS THE PURCHASING DEPARTMENT
GOING TO MAKE THIS A PART
OF THE PACKAGE?
OK, YES.
THAT THEY ARE GOING TO DO THAT
OK AND I'VE TALKED TO MILTON
AND HE SAID THIS DOESN'T HAVE
TO COME IN FRONT OF ADMIN
COMMITTEE UNTIL WE APPROVE.
THEN THEY'LL FIGURE OUT DETAILS
OF ENFORCEMENT IMPLEMENTATION
AND I GUESS IT'S IMPLEMENTATION
AND THAT'S WHERE WE'RE GOING TO
GET THE MOST BANG FROM.
THIS IS HOW IT'S IMPLEMENTED.
A MEMO DID GO TO COUNCIL THAT
THIS IS NOT IN VIOLATION OF THE
PREEMPTION OF STATE LAW
.
WE'RE PREEMPTED BY STATE LAW
THAT CAN'T TELL BUSINESSES
UNLESS THEIR BUSINESS IS
ENGAGING IN A POTENTIAL
CONTRACT WITH US.
SO HYPOTHETICALLY A BUSINESS
COULD ASK EVERY ONE OF THEIR
EMPLOYERS ABOUT THEIR CRIMINAL
LEGAL HISTORY AT ANY POINT.
BUT IF THEY ARE ABOUT TO
CONTRACT ONE EMPLOYER OUT TO US
WITH THOSE COULDN'T IT'S
COMPLEX BUT TO TALK ABOUT IT
MORE.
YEAH, YEAH.
THANK YOU.
IT'S INTERESTING AND IT COULD
BE VERY IMPACTFUL I THINK BY
THE WAY TARGET AND I BELIEVE
KOHL'S HAD LONG HAD THIS
PROCESS.
YEAH IT'S GOOD.
I SAID YOU WANT TO TALK NOW
ABOUT YOUR YOUR WHAT YOU'RE
GOING TO WHAT YOU'RE THINKING
ABOUT.
YOU KNOW IT'S STILL IN THE
WORKS BETWEEN COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGS AND SONG AND MYSELF AND
YOU KNOW AT THIS POINT ALL
OF OUR STATE REPRESENTATIVES IN
ANN ARBOR HAVE SIGNED A LETTER
SUPPORTING A CEASE FIRE AND OUR
HIGHER ELECTED OFFICIALS HAVE
AS WELL.
AND IT'S JUST REALLY GOING TO
BE UPLIFTING THOSE STATEMENTS
AND THEN ALSO HAVE A LOCAL
FOCUS ON CONDEMNING
ISLAMOPHOBIA AND ANTI-SEMITISM
HERE AND OUR COMMUNITY AND
MAKING SURE PEOPLE FEEL SAFE.
I'VE BEEN ON THE PHONE NONSTOP
FOR DAYS WITH PEOPLE IN BOTH
COMMUNITY BUT MOSTLY PEOPLE WHO
ARE ON THE PALESTINIAN SIDE.
THAT'S JUST WHO HAVE BEEN
CONTACTING ME AND PEOPLE WANT
US TO SAY SOMETHING ESPECIALLY
WITH I THINK THE UNIVERSITY'S
RESPONSE RIGHT NOW NOT BEING AS
ADEQUATE AS THE PUBLIC WOULD
LIKE.
THEY'RE COMING TO US AND
THEY'RE ASKING CITY HALL TO SAY
SOMETHING.
YEAH, SAY SOMETHING TO WHOM?
TO THE COMMUNITY THROUGH A
RESOLUTION.
AND YOU KNOW, WE WANT TO ENGAGE
PEOPLE ALSO IN THE JEWISH
COMMUNITY AND IN READING THIS
OVER AS WELL.
AND THAT'S WHAT WE HOPE TO DO.
GLENN, DO YOU WANT TO SAY
ANYTHING OR SPEAK ANY MORE TO
THAT BECAUSE I IMAGINE SOME
PEOPLE MAY HAVE CONCERNS ABOUT
THEM.
RIGHT.
AND WHAT HAPPENED WITH HAMAS
AND ASKING FOR THE RELEASE
OF HOSTAGES AND YOU KNOW, EVEN
SAYING THERE IS A RIGHT FOR FOR
ISRAEL TO HAVE TO DEFEND
ITSELF.
BUT WE BELIEVE THE STRATEGY
THAT'S HAPPENING NOW IS NOT THE
RIGHT ONE RIGHT.
AND SO I WANT BOTH THE COUNCIL
MEMBERS INVOLVED TO ALL GET ON
THE SAME PAGE ABOUT WHAT WE
WANT AND THEN WE WILL APPROACH
PEOPLE IN BOTH COMMUNITIES.
HOPEFULLY WE DON'T HAVE A LOT
OF TIME BUT WE ALSO THINK THAT
WE NEED TO TAKE ACTION BECAUSE
OF JUST THE AMOUNT OF PEOPLE IN
THE COMMUNITY THAT HAVE REACHED
OUT
.
AND I'LL JUST ADD THAT I AM
STILL I'M REALLY RETICENT AND
LIKE LIKE GOING BEYOND OUR
PURVIEW, BEYOND OUR CHARTER AND
OUR ROLES AS CITY COUNCIL
MEMBERS AND HAVING STATEMENT ON
INTERNATIONAL GEOPOLITICAL
AFFAIRS.
BUT I THINK THERE IS A THIS NEW
YORK TIMES ARTICLE THAT I HAD
THAT LESLIE AND I WRITE I DON'T
KNOW SOME OF YOUR READ ON WHY
ORGANIZERS HAVE BEEN
APPROACHING MUNICIPAL ON THIS
ISSUE KNOWING THE LIMITATIONS
OF OUR OF OUR POWER IN OUR WORK
AND OUR BUDGETS.
AND THAT'S REALLY THE LAST LINE
IN THE ARTICLE WHERE A COUNCIL
MEMBER SAID CITIES HAVE PUBLIC
COMMENTS.
IT'S WHERE CONSTITUENTS CAN
FEEL LIKE THEY HAVE A VOICE AND
IT'S JUST FRUSTRATION WITH
GOVERNMENT.
I MEAN WE'RE SUPPOSED TO BE
HERE TO RESTORE FAITH IN
GOVERNMENT.
I ALWAYS TRY TO GET REALLY
SPECIFIC EXAMPLES OF WHAT WE
TRY TO DO.
LIKE WE SAY WE WE SAY WE
BELIEVE IN SOMETHING AND WE
ACTUALLY DO IT RIGHT.
AND IF THIS RESOLUTION IS
REALLY AFFIRMING WHAT'S ALREADY
BEEN DONE, YOU KNOW, WHICH IS
WHAT CONGRESSMAN CONGRESSWOMAN
ENGEL HAD PUT OUT A STATEMENT
ON THEN I'M I'M MORE
COMFORTABLE WITH I JUST I JUST
WANT TO SAY THAT, YOU KNOW, WE
DON'T WE DON'T HAVE THIS
INTERNAL CAPACITY TO EVEN LOOK
AT.
I DO WONDER WHAT THE MESSAGE IS
TO CITY STAFF, YOU KNOW, LIKE
WE ARE NOW AND TRAINING THIS
WORLD OF INTERNATIONAL POLITICS
.
MEANWHILE, WE DO HAVE LIKE THE
CITY THE WORK OF THE CITY TO
CONTINUE, YOU KNOW, LIKE YEAH.
AND I THINK THAT YOU KNOW AND
WHAT WE DIRECT CITY STAFF TO DO
IT WILL REALLY BE AND OUR CITY
OFFICIALS TO DO IT REALLY HAS
TO BE FOCUSED ON THE LOCAL
IMPACT RIGHT ON THE CIVIL
RIGHTS INFRINGEMENTS ON PEOPLE
FEELING LIKE THEY COULD BE THAT
THEY ARE BEING I MEAN I CAN
TELL YOU PERSONALLY LIVING
THROUGH POST 9/11 IN THIS I AM
EXTREMELY SCARED FOR MY KIDS.
THERE'S JUST A LOT
OF ASSUMPTIONS THAT ARE MADE
AND AND I'M SURE THE JEWISH
COMMUNITY IS AFRAID TO SO I
THINK STAYING WITH THAT LOCAL
KIND OF FOCUSED IMPACT THAT IS
IMPORTANT.
YEAH, THAT IS IMPORTANT AND
AFFIRMING THAT FOLKS SHOULD BE
ABLE TO COME HERE FOR US TO
HEAR THESE STORIES WHERE
FAMILIES ARE AFRAID TO PUT
MENORAHS IN THEIR WINDOWS.
YEAH.
YES, RIGHT.
AND CHILDREN BEING HARASSED IN
SCHOOLS.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THE SCHOOLS
ARE DOING BUT YOU KNOW, THIS IS
A CONVERSATION WE SHOULD HAVE
WITH SCHOOLS IN SOME WAY TO
WHERE PEOPLE SHOULD FEEL FREE
TO FIND REMEDIES.
YOU KNOW, IF THEY FEEL UNSAFE
TO CALL THE POLICE, IF THEY'RE
BEING HARASSED TO COME HERE,
WHATEVER HAPPENS IN SCHOOLS,
HOPEFULLY THERE'S A PATH FOR A
REMEDY THERE WITH PARENTS AND
CHILDREN.
I DON'T KNOW HOW MUCH OF A
REMEDY THIS RESOLUTION WILL BE
BECAUSE I DON'T THINK THE
REGION IS REALLY WAITING FOR US
TO WEIGH IN ON.
BUT IT'S REALLY NOT ABOUT THAT.
RIGHT.
I THINK WHAT ASIA HAS BEEN
TRYING TO TELL FOLKS IT'S IT'S
REFLECTING THE MUTUAL HURT THAT
WE'RE SEEING IN COMMUNITY AND
AFFIRMING WHAT FOLKS WHO
ACTUALLY INFLUENCE THE
PRESIDENT AND CONGRESS HAVE
BEEN HAVE BEEN SAYING ONE THING
THAT'S REALLY COMMON TODAY IS
THAT BECAUSE OF OUR I KNOW WE
COMPLAIN OTHER THINGS AND SO I
THINK ONCE WE GET THE
RESOLUTION PEOPLE SAY WHY
AREN'T PEOPLE COMING FORWARD
WITH THESE?
AND PART OF THAT I THINK IS
THAT LIKE YOU SAID, THEY'VE
LOST FAITH IN THAT THEY DON'T
THINK THAT THEY BEEN FOR
ARGUMENTATIVELY THEN IT'S ALSO
BEEN A GREAT RELIEF.
BUT I THINK THEY HAVE NOT FELT
ABLE TO BRING IT FORWARD AND SO
WE HEARD SOMEONE ACKNOWLEDGE
TODAY, HOWEVER, THAT WE KNOW
THAT RESOLUTION IS NOT GOING TO
SOLVE THE PRACTICAL OR
GEOPOLITICAL PROBLEM THAT IS
GOING ON FOR DECADES.
THAT'S NOT THE END BUT THE
LOCAL IMPACT OF IT.
HOW DOES IT AFFECT THE PEOPLE
IN OUR COMMUNITY WHO ARE
EXPERIENCING ANTI-SEMITISM,
ISLAMOPHOBIA AND HERE THAT I
THINK IS THE INTENDED AUDIENCE
FOR THE PRIME MINISTER
OF ISRAEL WAS OR PARTY HERE AND
WHATEVER AND OBVIOUSLY I MEAN
YEAH, I AGREE THAT THAT'S A
VERY IMPORTANT THING WHETHER IT
GOES I DON'T KNOW IF IT BELONGS
IN THAT RESOLUTION IF THERE
WOULD BE ANOTHER RESOLUTION.
I THINK WE'RE TRYING TO
INCORPORATE THIS I KNOW
FOCUSING ON THE LOCAL IMPACT
AND JUST BEING BETTER NEIGHBORS
AND CALLING OUT, YOU KNOW,
DISCRIMINATION AND THAT'S
HAPPENING ON BOTH SIDES.
THAT'S GOING TO BE PART OF THIS
I THINK ONE THING THAT YOU
SPOKE TO THAT COULD BE LIKE AN
ACTUAL ITEM IS HRC BEING IN THE
RESOLUTION, HRC DEVELOPING OUR
RELATIONSHIPS WITH COMMUNITIES
THAT ARE MARGINALIZED LIKE
JEWISH PEOPLE LIKE ARAB PEOPLE
SO THAT WE KNOW AND WE DEVELOP
A RAPPORT WITH THEM AND THEY
COME TO US BECAUSE WE'RE
HEARING THAT ALL THESE
INCIDENCES ARE HAPPENING AND
HRC IS NOT A BODY THAT IS
HEARING ENOUGH AND WE HAVE TO
ASK OURSELVES WHY ARE YOU
SUGGESTING WE GO SPECIFICALLY
TO THE THE ARAB COMMUNITIES IN
THE JEWISH COMMUNITIES AND
SAYING WE'RE HERE MAYBE I DON'T
KNOW MAYBE ARE WE TALKING I
MEAN WHEN WE DO THAT WITH XPAC
WITH A POLICE OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION, WE GO TO PEACE
NEIGHBORHOOD, WE GO TO, YOU
KNOW, WITHIN COMMUNITY TO SAY
IF YOU HAVE COMPLAINT ABOUT
POLICE, THIS IS WHO WE ARE.
WE HAVE IN THE PAST WE HAD IN
THE PAST JUST NOT RECENTLY.
YES.
AND I DON'T YOU CAN COME TO
MONDAY'S MEETING.
I MEAN APPARENTLY WE HAVE A LOT
OF ROOM WE HAVE YEAH WE HAVE
YEAH.
YEAH BUT YEAH WHATEVER THAT
TARGETED OF WHEREVER THAT
OUTREACH STRATEGY MAY BE AS AS
A BODY
WHETHER IT'S US, YOU
KNOW, GOING TO PLACES
OF WORSHIP, COMMUNITY CENTERS,
WHATEVER, WE HAVE A
RESPONSIBILITY TO SHOW UP AND
YOU KNOW IT'S HAS BEEN TALKING
ABOUT FOR A LONG TIME LET'S GET
OURSELVES ON TV.
I THINK LET'S ALSO JUST GET
OURSELVES BOOTS ON THE GROUND
LIKE IN THE PLACES WHERE PEOPLE
EXIST.
>> YEAH, THERE'S CERTAINLY A
NEED FOR A LOT OF PAIN OUT
THERE.
YEAH, THERE'S A LOT OF PAIN AND
AND I THINK I THINK JUST
KNOWING THAT WE'RE HERE AND WE
PEOPLE STILL DON'T KNOW WE'RE
HERE.
YEAH YEAH.
YEAH.
AND ALSO JUST CLARIFYING LIKE
LIKE THIS ISN'T THERAPY AND
THAT'S NOT TO MAKE THINGS
TRIVIAL BUT LIKE THE
THE THINGS
THAT WE DO SHOULD BE SPECIFIC
YOU KNOW LIKE HOW WHAT WE WRITE
AND HOW WE REFLECT AND WHAT WE
CAN DO.
IT'S NOT TO NARROW THE THE ASK
IT'S IT'S JUST SO THAT IT CAN
BE REALISTICALLY ADDRESSED, YOU
KNOW, SO YEAH YEAH.
WE'LL HAVE TO TRY A VERY
STRANGE NEEDLE.
YEAH.
THIS GOING ALONG WITH THAT UM I
KNOW WE QUITE A BIT ABOUT AS A
COMMUNITY OUTREACH AND STRATEGY
ON THAT IN THE FIRST PLACE.
I THINK THAT WHEN WE HAVE THAT
STRATEGIC PLANNING MEETING THAT
THAT WILL BE THE IDEAL TIME TO
SEE HOW WE CAN BEST DO THIS
WORK IN A VERY INTENTIONAL AND
EFFECTIVE WAY AND THEN
HOPEFULLY WE CAN BUILD IN
DIFFERENT AVENUES TO BE MORE
PROACTIVE AS WELL AND AS
OPPOSED TO HAVING LIKE A
REACTIVE APPROACH TO BUT YEAH,
THERE'S NEVER A RIGHT TIME
NECESSARILY BUT WE CAN START
COMING TOGETHER WHERE WE WILL
BE THE RIGHT TIME IF WE HAVE A
STRATEGIC PLANNING AND THEN
IT'S ON THE AGENDA.
DO NOT FOLLOW THE ORDER.
EVERYTHING IS COMING TOGETHER
IN SOME WAYS WE HAVE A
STRATEGIC PLANNING COMMITTEE
AND THINKING MARCH NOW I'M
THINKING MARCH BECAUSE I KID IS
GOING TO BE HERE BECAUSE WE'RE
WE HAVE THIS INSTEAD AND WE
WE'RE A LITTLE BEHIND BUT ALSO
IF WE IF WE DO HAVE A WORKING
GROUP OR TWO TO TALK ABOUT THIS
THOSE PEOPLE CAN COME TO THE
STRATEGIC PLANNING MEETING AND
WE CAN MAKE SOME INTERESTING
DECISIONS THAT THAT'S GOING TO
BE COULD BE HELPFUL AND SO ARE
THE PEOPLE WHO WANT TO DO THAT
IS IS THAT A POSSIBILITY?
WE SORT OF INFERRED THAT WE
WOULD I WOULD LIKE TO BECAUSE
WE HAVE WE HAVE TO ACT ON WHAT
WE HAVE TO AT LEAST TALK ABOUT
THIS AND AND DECIDE WHAT WE
WANT OUR HOW CAN WE BE
EFFECTIVE GIVEN THIS WAR, GIVEN
THE NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO ARE
AFFECTED BY IT AND GIVEN THAT
THAT'S WHAT WAS IN
DISCRIMINATION AND
QUESTION AND
THIS IS MORE TO AISHA AND LEON.
IS THERE A DRAFT THAT YOU'RE
PROPOSING FOR THE RESOLUTION OR
IS IT STILL LIKE A WORK IN
PROGRESS OR IS THERE SOMETHING
THAT YOU HAVE THAT YOU CAN
EITHER LOOK AT AND MAYBE HAVE
INPUT?
YOU KNOW, THERE IS KIND OF A
WORK IN PROGRESS BUT FROM MY
DISCUSSIONS WITH THE OTHER
CO-SPONSORS, WE WANT TO SHARE
IT WHEN IT'S MORE CLOSE TO
BEING DONE WHICH WE HOPE TO DO
TOMORROW AND IT WILL ECHO A LOT
OF WHAT OUR HIGHER ELECTED
OFFICIALS HAVE ALREADY RELEASED
AND STATED IT WON'T GO MUCH
BEYOND THAT BESIDES ADDITIONAL
LOCAL IMPACT AND WHAT BODIES
LIKE US COULD DO AND THIS WOULD
BE SOMETHING I WOULD SUBMIT TO
CITY COUNCIL TO GET APPROVED.
YOU DON'T REALLY NEED US.
I MEAN IF THIS BODY I MEAN
WE'RE NOT ABLE TO VOTE
ELECTRONICALLY.
I DON'T BELIEVE SO.
BUT WE COULD WE COULD MAKE AS
WORKGROUPS MECHANIC I COULD GET
IT DOWN TO WHERE I'M GOING TO
DO THIS TO THIS YEAR DUOLOGY I
WAS AND I WISH YOU ALL THE BEST
IN DRAFTING SUCH A TRICKY
SITUATION MEAN MY GUT FEELING
IS FOR THE SIDE OF THE STAY OUT
OF GEOPOLITICS BUT I APPRECIATE
THE PAIN AND THE YEAH.
THAT WE ALL FEEL IN THE
COMMUNITY AND DOING SOMETHING
THAT A CREATING MORE HARM THAN
GOOD IS THAT YOU KNOW WE CHOOSE
THE BOTH SIDES OF THE ROOM AND
ALL THAT AND YOU DON'T WANT TO
AND I'M MOSTLY CONCERNED HOW WE
CAN BE MOST EFFECTIVE IN
ADDRESSING ACTUAL COMPLAINTS
AND IF YOU COULD INCLUDE A
SHOUT OUT TO HRC HANDLES
COMPLAINTS BY CBS, YOU SHOULD
AUDIENCE THAT WOULD BE
SOMETHING WE TO THE EFFECT
OF CONCERN THAT WE HAVEN'T BEEN
HEARING ABOUT SOME OF THESE
THINGS.
YES, I'M AND YOU KNOW YOU DON'T
COME NEAR US THAT WOULD BE
BETTER IF WE WERE HEARING ABOUT
IT DIRECTLY FROM THE
COMPLAINANTS AND SO IF PEOPLE
ARE GOING TO READ THIS THING
AND NOTHING ELSE THEY'LL BE
ALERTED TO THE EXISTENCE OF A
DEFAMATION ORDINANCE IN A
PROCESS THAT THEY CAN PURSUE
FOR THEIR LOCAL ILLS EFFECT IT
WILL HAVE ON GEOPOLITICS.
IS THIS I'M AFRAID BUT I ADMIRE
WHY PEOPLE KNOW THAT IF YOU GO
TO THEIR LOCAL PLACES AND
THAT'S WHERE THEY CAN BE HEARD
AND IF YOU CAN SHOW THE
PRESIDENT I KNOW YOU WANT
DOESN'T HEAR YOU SO THAT'S JUST
MY YEAH YEAH.
AND I THINK YEAH DEFINITELY
PUTTING EXPLICITLY IN HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION CHARGED WITH
UPHOLDING THE NONDISCRIMINATION
CHAPTER WHATEVER
NONDISCRIMINATION ORDINANCE AND
STATE HATE CRIME LAWS LIKE WE
STRENGTH I THINK THAT'S PASSED
THIS LEGISLATURE HAD
STRENGTHENED HATE CRIME LAWS,
RIGHT?
YEAH WE CAN MENTION THAT YEAH.
YEAH.
BUT ACTUALLY REALLY MENTIONING
THIS BODY WHAT WE ALREADY CAN
DO AND WHAT WE COULD DO IN
ADDITION I THINK IS IMPORTANT
LIKE RESOLVED HRC WILL DEVELOP
AN OUTREACH STRATEGY TO I DON'T
KNOW INTERACT WITH MARGINALIZED
COMMUNITIES.
WE CAN MAKE IT MORE BROAD SO IT
COULD BE SOMETHING THAT WE
IMPLEMENT AND THERE ARE OTHER
INCIDENCES AND ISSUES THAT COME
UP.
PEOPLE ARE COVERED SAY CONTINUE
TO BECAUSE WE HAVE CONTINUE TO.
YEAH YEAH THAT'S RIGHT.
YEAH.
AND YOU KNOW IN REGARDS TO LIKE
SOME OF THE AND I KNOW
GEOPOLITICAL IMPACT WILL BE
NONE RIGHT.
I ALSO KNOW THAT PEOPLE HERE
ARE BEING AFFECTED.
I MEAN GROWING UP WITH YOU KNOW
MY MY BROTHER'S AND HIS FRIENDS
AND HIS MOM WORKED TWO JOBS
HERE IN ANN ARBOR AFTER HIS
PARENTS HAD A DIVORCE AND HIS
DAD GOT HIS PHD FROM CHEMISTRY
AT UT AND THEN HE WAS TEACHING
IN GAZA AND NOW HE'S STUCK
THERE WITH HIS SIBLINGS FOR HIM
AND YOU KNOW HE IS HE'S A
NEUROSURGEON.
I MEAN IT IMPACTS PEOPLE HERE
DECISION WITHOUT A HOSPITAL
OPERATED.
YEAH.
AND A LOT OF PATIENTS HIS
FRIEND IS A PROFESSOR AND A
NEUROSURGEON.
SO THIS PERSON THAT I'M TALKING
ABOUT WHOSE FAMILY IS GONE HE'S
PROFESSOR HERE.
SO PEOPLE IN THIS COMMUNITY ARE
LOSING LOVED ONES RIGHT HERE.
ARE YOU WILLING TO PASS THE
DRAFT?
YES, IS FOR YEAH.
NO TO ME BUT MY CLIENT WOULD BE
HELPFUL AND WE WOULD BE MORE
FAMILIAR WITH IT.
AND I THINK IF YOU GUYS WANT TO
PROVIDE LANGUAGE UNRESOLVED
ABOUT THE HUMAN RIGHTS
CONTINUED WORK WELL THAT'S A
GOOD IDEA TOO LONG THAT WOULD
BE HELPFUL AND THEN YES I CAN
PASS ON A DRAFT.
UH HUH.
I THINK THERE WITH MANY WAYS
THAT ONE VIA BOTH.
YES.
AND SUPPORT ALL THAT LEAST WE
FULLY RESPECT THE WORK AND ALL
WE DO BECAUSE A ALL THAT YOU'VE
DONE UM I THINK I'M A VERY
BECAUSE YOU KNOW, THAT
ADDRESSES THE ISSUE
COMPREHENSIVELY AS WELL AS YOU
THINK GIVEN THAT WE BOTH NEED
IN TIMES LIKE WE CAN'T VOTE IN
FAVOR OF THE RESOLUTION HERE.
WE'RE NOT CITY COUNCIL AND THE
DRAFT LANGUAGE THAT WE CAN'T
VOTE WHETHER OR NOT TO
SUPPORTED BUT ARE WE ABLE TO
VOTE TO SUPPORT THE WOMEN THE
EGLINTON BRINGS FORWARD SUCH A
RESOLUTION FOR CONSIDERATION
OF THE WE I MENTIONED WE HAVE
THE ABILITY TO I UNDERSTAND
WHAT YOUR QUESTION IS.
I THINK WE HAVE THE ABILITY TO
TO RESOLVE THE CITY COUNCIL,
ACCEPT THE I'M NOT REALLY
COMFORTABLE DOING THAT UNTIL I
READ THE RULES.
OF COURSE NOT OF COURSE.
BUT NOT NOT EVERY VOTE THAT WE
SUPPORT CITY COUNCIL ACCEPTING
THE RESOLUTION BECAUSE WE
HAVEN'T NO YOU WOULDN'T HAVE TO
SAY THE SUPPORT I WOULD IN
BRINGING FORWARD A RESOLUTION.
WELL, YOU WANT TO MAKE SURE YOU
KNOW WHAT THE RESOLUTION IS FOR
YOU BUT WE CERTAINLY SUPPORT
AND WE HAVE AND WE HOPE I MEAN
I HOPE CERTAINLY THAT IT'S NOT
I WORRY ABOUT THE CITY PASSING
A RESOLUTION THAT DIVIDES
PEOPLE MORE THAN IT BRINGS THEM
TOGETHER.
IT'S MY FEAR AND THE WORDS AS
BRENNAN SAID EARLIER TODAY I
WAS TALKING WITH HIM ON
DIFFERENT THINGS TO DIFFERENT
PEOPLE.
WE'VE GOT TO BE VERY CAREFUL
ABOUT HOW YOU USE THEM.
I THINK I THINK WE'RE ASSUMING
THAT THE PATH IS GOING TO BE
EASY BETWEEN NOW AND MONDAY.
I ACTUALLY HAVEN'T SEEN IT BUT
YOU KNOW, I'VE BEEN ASSURED
THAT IT
FOLLOWS CLOSELY WITH
WITH CONGRESSWOMAN DINGELL
STATEMENT THAT HASN'T MADE
EVERYONE HAPPY BUT IT'S ON THE
RECORD AND IT'S IT'S ACTUALLY A
MUCH MORE SIGNIFICANT THING
THAT WE COULD HAVE EVER SAID.
SO I THINK COMMISSIONER, WHY
ARE YOU ARE YOU ASKING FOR A
VOTE JUST AFFIRMING THE
ORDINANCE IN THIS DISCUSSION OR
I MEAN I DON'T KNOW IF YOU
REALLY NEED A VOTE FOR THAT.
>> I'M NOT REALLY SURE WHAT
YOUR WHAT WHAT KIND OF VOTE
YOU'RE LOOKING FOR BECAUSE I
HAVEN'T SEEN THE DRAFT AND
WE'RE STILL NOT SUPPORTING OUR
VOTE IN SUPPORT OF A SPECIFIC
DRAFT BUT JUST A VOTE THAT WE
SUPPORT IS BEING ADDED TO THE
AGENDA ON MONDAY FOR DISCUSSION
SUPPORTING THE PROCESS.
YES, BECAUSE WE CAN'T SUPPORT
THE PRODUCT.
WE HAVEN'T SEEN IT BASED ON
WHAT WE'VE HEARD TODAY THAT WE
THAT WE SUPPORT THAT
COUNCILWOMAN GARZA EDWYN
DESERVE TO BE ABLE TO BRING
SOMETHING FORWARD FOR
DISCUSSION REGARDLESS OF HOW
THE COUNCIL MEMBERS EVENTUALLY
VOTE ON IT TO SOME EXTENT WE
DID TODAY IN THE MEETING WE IN
AND THAT WE THAT YOU TALKED
ABOUT DENHA MEETING AND I
APPRECIATE THAT IT DOESN'T
SUPPORT THAT.
IT DOESN'T MEAN IT SAYS WE WANT
TO DO SOMETHING DOES WE CARE
NOW IS THE NEXT STEP IS WHAT
WHAT'S I REALLY HOPE YOU CAN
COME UP WITH SOMETHING GOOD.
YES.
THIS NEWBOROUGH LIKE I SUPPORT
THE MOTION STUPAK COUNTY TO
COME UP WITH THE THING THAT
THEY COME UP WITH AND AND HOPE
IT'S A GOOD ONE.
THEY'RE TRYING TO EVEN THOUGH
IT'S JUST THAT THIS REDISCUSS
AND IT'S WHAT WE DISCUSSED.
SO IT'S YOU KNOW THAT I THINK
IT COULD EASILY BE MISCONSTRUED
AND I THINK IT'S IT'S SPLITTING
HAIRS A LITTLE BIT IN A WAY
THAT I THINK WE SHOULD JUST
WAIT AND SEE.
BUT I SEE WHAT YOU'RE TRYING TO
DO.
BUT I THINK I'M AND I'M NOT
REALLY COMFORTABLE WITH IT
EITHER.
I'M IT WILL BE IN THE MINUTE.
IS THAT TRUE?
I WOULD THINK I THINK THE FACT
THAT WE TALKED ABOUT WILL BE IN
THE MINUTE SORRY I THERE THAT
IT'S MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT
YOUR RESOLUTION HAS NOT YET ON
THE AGENDA FOR THE COUNCIL
MEETING ON MONDAY SO I WOULDN'T
I I'M SAYING CAN WE EXPRESS
SUPPORT THAT IT BE HERE ADDED
TO THE AGENDA.
>> OH I LIKE YOU ALL.
YOU'RE MAKING A MOTION THAT
THERE BE A VOTE YES.
ABOUT WHETHER YOU JUST ALSO SAY
WE SUPPORT THIS BEING DISCUSSED
AS AN AGENDA ITEM CREF AS IT
SHOULD BE.
THIS IS CLEARLY AN ITEM
OF LOCAL INTEREST AND CONCERN
AND THUS DESERVES TO BE ON CITY
COUNCIL.
BUT THEN FOR MONDAY
AND WE PUT
THIS UP IS THERE IF THERE'S A
SECOND RIGHT I THAT'S WELL SO
YOU MAKING A MOTION FROM
EMOTION IS THERE A SECOND DOWN
HERE?
ONE TWO I SUSPECT THIS ISN'T
GOING TO FLY WELL DO YOU WANT
TO REPEAT IT AGAIN, SARAH?
YES.
GIVEN THE LOCAL INTEREST AND
CONCERN TODAY ABOUT HOW A CEASE
FIRE RESOLUTION COULD IMPACT
LOCAL AND RESIDENTS AS WELL AS
OUR OWN WORK AS THE HRC AND
MAKING SURE THAT RESIDENTS FEEL
COMFORTABLE BRINGING FORWARD
INSTANCES OF ANTI-SEMITISM OR
ISLAMOPHOBIA THAT THEY ARE
EXPERIENCING AT THIS TIME I
WOULD LIKE TO SEE THE VOTE TO
SUPPORT THAT COUNCIL.
I THOUGHT THE EDWARDS
RESOLUTION ADDED TO THE CITY
COUNCIL OR DISCUSSION WE'RE
SUPPORTING YES OR NO IN FAVOR
OF THE OFFER RESOLUTION ON JUST
THAT IT HAS ON THE AGENDA TO BE
PRESENTED TO CITY COUNCIL AND
DISCUSSED.
DO YOU WANT TIME ON MONDAY EVEN
DRAFTED YET?
WELL I MEAN IT'S IN PROCESS
WHEN IT COMES FORWARD I'LL BE
GIVEN TIME AS WELL.
YES.
WITH EVERYONE ELSE TO DISCUSS
IT SO YES, I WANT TIME IF
THAT'S WHAT YOU'RE ASKING FOR
ON MONDAY.
YEAH.
OH YEAH.
DID YOU ASK FOR TIME?
WELL, I'M SORRY I'M GETTING
CONFUSED.
I'M OK.
WE DON'T USUALLY DO THINK THIS
IS A VERY IMPORTANT DISCUSSION
,RIGHT.
YEAH YEAH I MEAN YEAH IT WOULD
BE HELPFUL IF OUR CITY FOR
ANOTHER EIGHT YEARS IF THEY
THINK THIS IS A RELEVANT ENOUGH
ISSUE.
THEY'VE HEARD FROM ENOUGH
COMMUNITY MEMBERS THAT IT
SHOULD BE DISCUSSED.
I JUST THINK IT SHOULD BE GIVEN
I'M PREPARED.
I THINK IT'S HARD TO SAY YES OR
NO TO THAT BECAUSE YOU DON'T IS
IN THE END AND TALKING ABOUT IT
AND GETTING CONCERNED ABOUT IT
BEFORE IT'S THERE MIGHT MAKE IT
LESS LIKELY TO PASS WHEN IN
FACT WHEN THEY FINALLY READ IT
AND SAY YES, THAT DOES MAKE
SENSE.
SO I'M ONE I'M A LITTLE
WONDERING ABOUT THE VALUE
OF SUCH A WELL I YOU KNOW,
WE'VE NEVER WE'VE NEVER MADE
THAT KIND OF RESOLUTION.
IT'S IT'S TO GENERAL THE
MINUTES THE MINUTES OF THIS
MEETING WILL BE INCLUDED.
THAT'S RIGHT.
RIGHT.
WELL, THAT'S WHAT I'M SAYING TO
BE INCLUDED SO THEY'LL THEY
WILL SAY THAT BUT IT WON'T COST
MY DAY OR CONSIDERATION FOR
SPECIFIC SPECIFICALLY SAYING
THAT AND AND I ISIS ALSO SAYING
THIS WOULD BE HELPFUL TO HER TO
HAVE A VOTE.
IT'S I MEAN YOU'VE YOU'VE MADE
A MOTION SO AND THEN IF SOMEONE
SECONDS IT AND THEN THERE'S
DISCUSSION AND THEN THERE'S A
VOTE.
>> RIGHT.
SO IS THERE IS THERE CLARITY ON
THE MOTION?
IS THERE CLARITY IN THE MOTION?
>> CAN YOU SAY IT AGAIN AND WE
CALL IT WE'RE NOT SUPPORT THAT
CITY COUNCIL AD COUNCILWOMAN AD
WITH RESOLUTION DO THEIR AGENDA
DO DISCUSS DESERVE TO HAVE TIME
FOR A DISCUSSION.
OK, LET ME ANSWER FOR A YES OR
NO.
THE RESOLUTION ITSELF BECAUSE
WE HAVEN'T SEEN BUT JUST GIVEN
WHAT WE HEARD TODAY ABOUT HOW
IMPORTANT THIS IS TO THAT OUR
RESIDENTS AS WELL AS OUR
KNOWLEDGE OF AS WE THE EDWARDS
ETHOS AND APPROACH TO THIS
RESOLUTION AND WITH GREAT
INTEGRITY THAT WE THINK IT
SHOULD BE GIVEN TIME TO BE
DISCUSSED.
IS THERE A SECOND STILL
CONCERNED ABOUT HAVING IT
DISCUSSED WITHOUT A WITHOUT A
SECOND?
I DON'T HEAR A SECOND SECOND I
THINK IT NEEDS TO HAVE A
DISCUSSION OF THIS CLEARLY AND
SO THAT WE CAN HAVE A YES OR NO
THIS WILL HAPPEN.
IT'S NOT FOR US.
YEAH I KNOW.
JUST LIKE F RESOLVING THIS I
MEAN THAT CITY COUNCIL.
YEAH YEAH YEAH.
OK SO YOU SECOND YEAH.
NOW YOU GET TO DISCUSS THIS IS
LIKE MANY CITY COUNCIL THIS IS
LIKE CITY COUNCIL.
YEAH THIS IS A PREVIEW
OF MONDAY THE QUESTION BECAUSE
WE DON'T ACTUALLY GET TO VOTE
SO I AND I HAVE NO VOTING NOT
VOTING ON ONE AND HERE AND ONLY
A VOTE YOU KNOW YOU HAVE TO GET
ON BOARD BECAUSE YOU'RE CITY
COUNCIL.
YEAH.
YES WE ALREADY GET TIME FOR IT,
OK?
I MEAN, YOU KNOW, I THINK IF
THIS MOTION PASSES THERE COULD
BE A WAREHOUSE CLAUSE LIKE
WHEREAS THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION HAS HEARD FROM
ENOUGH COMMITTEE MEMBERS TO
KNOW THAT THIS IS A SIGNIFICANT
ISSUE AND BELIEVES IT NEEDS TO
BE DISCUSSED OR ADDRESSED.
>> BUT I WANT TO CHANGE THE
MOTION ALSO YOU GUYS HAVE TO
DISCUSS IT WITH ME WHEN WE MAKE
RESOLUTION FAMILY.
MY OLDEST BROTHER ANALAGOUS AND
WE HAVE RESOLVED THESE FIVE
REASONS WHY WE VOTED FOR WE
WANT SOMETHING WE DON'T HAVE
ANY OF THAT AND I DON'T EVEN
HAVE IT IN MY MIND HOW I WOULD
WRITE IT.
YOU COULD WRITE IT AND YOU
SHOULD HAVE READ WHERE YOU
COULDN'T HAVE WRITTEN IT
BEFORE.
ONE OF THE PROBLEMS IS BY NOT
WRITING THINKING THAT THE
AGENDA HAS TO BE FINALIZED BY
FRIDAY AS WE FINALIZE ON
FRIDAY.
KENNEDY I THINK OUR AGENDA
SESSION IS ACTUALLY TOMORROW
TOMORROW FOR CITY COUNCIL FOR
CITY COUNCIL'S AGENDA.
YEAH, I THINK THE FINAL ONE IS
TOMORROW.
IT'S PUBLISHED ON FRIDAY AS
WITH OPPOSITION BODIES.
BUT THE DISCUSSION IS TOMORROW
SO WE NEED TO COME TOMORROW BY
FIVE BY FIVE AND THEN THE
AGENDA WILL GET PUBLISHED ON
FRIDAY.
SO YOU HAVE TO SUBMIT IT
TOMORROW.
YEAH, THAT'S WHAT I WAS YEAH.
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE PLANNING.
SO I GUESS I HAVE A PROCEDURAL
QUESTION FOR I SHOULD
WHETHER
OR NOT IT'S MATTER GETS
DISCUSSED AT A CITY COUNCIL
MEMBER.
IT DEPENDS ON WHAT JUST GETTING
IT IN ON TIME AND GETTING
ENOUGH SPONSORS.
SO IF WE DON'T GET IT IN
TOMORROW BY FIVE AND I THINK IT
CAN WE CAN SUBMIT IT FRIDAY BUT
IT WOULD NEED THREE CO-SPONSORS
SO A VOTE HERE WOULD HAVE NO
IMPACT ON WHETHER IT GETS
FURTHER DISCUSSED AT YOUR
MEETING.
THAT'S TRUE.
YEAH, THAT IS TRUE.
OK, GOOD.
I THINK GIVEN THAT WE HAVEN'T
SEEN THE RESOLUTION I'D BE
INCLINED TO JUST LET YOU DO
YOUR PROCESS.
YEAH, I'M AFRAID I AGREE.
I THINK THIS IS SUCH A HOT
TOPIC THAT THEY HAVE TO SEE
SOMETHING MORE TANGIBLE BEFORE
I DON'T THINK I DON'T THINK
HAVING A PREVIEW VOTE IS A IS A
HELPFUL THING AT THIS POINT.
NOT PREVIOUS VOTING ON IT
THOUGH WE'RE JUST SAYING THAT
WE SUPPORTED BEING DISCUSSED.
WE'RE NOT SUPPORTING THE
MEASURE OR NOT YES OR NO BASED
ON WHAT WE KNOW ABOUT THE
EFFORTS THAT WE THINK WE
SUPPORT FOR BRINGING IT FORWARD
AND HAVING TIME FOR DISCUSSION
,WHAT COULD I SUGGEST?
I THINK THE CLARIFYING POINT IS
THAT WHAT IF YOU SUBMIT IT ON
TIME AND EVERYTHING YOU'LL
AUTOMATICALLY HAVE TIME CORRECT
?
YEAH.
OK, SO I THINK THAT'S THE
CLARIFYING POINT OF JUST DO WE
NEED TO SUPPORT THAT TIME
THAT'S ALREADY GOING TO BE
GIVEN OR NOT AND EVERYTHING.
SO I DON'T I GUESS LIKE WHAT
THE MOTION AND EVERYTHING LIKE
IT'S SO CAN YOU CLARIFY FOR US
IF IT'S A VOTE ON THIS WOULD BE
HELPFUL FOR YOU IN ANY WAY?
I THINK YOU'D HAVE TO CHANGE
THE MOTION LIKE BEING I THINK
THAT WE'VE ALREADY DISCUSSED
AND AGREED THAT THE HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION SHOULD BE
MENTIONED IN REGARDS TO
RESOLVED AND TAKING MORE
ACTIONABLE STEPS TO REACH OUT
TO BOTH COMMUNITIES IF THE
MOTION WAS WHETHER HUMAN OR
WHETHER YOU ALL WOULD SUPPORT
BE INCLUDED AS A WHEREAS
WHEREAS THE HUMAN RIGHTS
COMMISSION HAS HEARD COMPLAINTS
FROM THE COMMUNITY AND KNOWS
THIS IS A SIGNIFICANT ISSUE
THAT SHOULD BE DISCUSSED, WHAT
IF THAT WOULD HELP IF I THINK
IF THAT IF THAT IS THE WHAT
WE'RE VOTING ON SO I WOULD MAKE
THAT MOTION BUT DOESN'T THAT
DEPEND INSIDE OF A CITY COUNCIL
THAT THE HRC BE INCLUDED IN OUR
SERVICES AND THE ATTACHED
CONDITION MUST BE MENTIONED AS
A RESOURCE AVAILABLE TO THE
COMMUNITY SO AND THAT THAT
WOULD BE WHAT ONE PART OF IT
WOULD BE A WHEREAS CLAUSE
INCLUDED IN ANY RESOLUTION THAT
I DO THAT WOULD THAT'S WHAT I
WOULD YES.
THAT WE SUPPORT.
I THINK YOU'VE GOT SUPPORT THAT
PEOPLE HAVE HEARD THE PAIN AND
KNOW THAT SOMETHING HAS TO
HAPPEN SO THAT COULD IT WHEREAS
A HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION HAS
HEARD THE PAIN OF THE COMMUNITY
AND BELIEVES THAT SOMETHING
SHOULD HAPPEN AND THE SENSE
THAT IT SHOULD BE DISCUSSED AT
COUNCIL IS I DON'T KNOW.
I THINK THAT'S I THINK IF
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE A
RESOLUTION THAT IT SHOULD MY MY
MY MY MOTION IS DIFFERENT.
I GUESS THE ANSWER IS YES IS
THAT IF YOU'RE GOING TO SUBMIT
A RESOLUTION THAT HRC AND ITS
SERVICES ORIENTED COMMISSIONER
TO BE REFERENCED IN ANY
RESOLUTION THAT I THINK WE
AGREED UPON AND DIDN'T NEED A
MOTION FOR, I'M ENTIRELY SURE.
SO YEAH, I DON'T I GUESS I
DON'T KNOW IF WE NEED A MOTION
SO I'M WITHDRAWING MY MOTION
GETS CONFUSING MY
CLARIFICATION.
HRC WILL BE MENTIONED AS AGREED
IN THE RESOLUTION THAT YOU ARE
WRITING IN REGARDS TO
CONDEMNING A SENSE OF SHAME AND
DISCRIMINATION.
MY RIGHT AND WELL I'M
WITHDRAWING THE MOTION WE'VE
HAD LIKE QUESTION TONIGHT AND
IT SOUNDS LIKE THAT IS QUITE
THAT PART OF IT.
AND SO I DON'T THINK WE NEED TO
HAVE A MOTION RESOLUTION.
SO I WAS AT THE MOTION THE
MOTION WAS LIKE NO, I JUST
WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT WAS
AGREED.
WHAT WAS AGREED UPON HERE IS
THAT HRC WILL BE MENTIONED AS
BEING PART OF THE STRATEGY TO
OUTREACH TO COMMUNITIES THAT
THE COMPLAINT PROCESS WILL BE
ON AND ARE UPHOLDING OF THE NDA
THAT WE'VE AGREED UPON WITH
SARAH'S MOTION.
WE DIDN'T NEED A MOTION.
IT WAS AGREED UPON.
A DISCUSSION IS MAKING A MOTION
IF YOU WERE MAKING THIS MOTION
THAT HRC ALSO BE MENTIONED IN
THE RESOLUTION, FOR EXAMPLE
WHEREAS AS A WHEREAS CLAUSE
THAT THEY'VE HEARD FROM THE
COMMUNITY I BELIEVE THAT THIS
ISSUE SHOULD BE DISCUSSED OR
SOMETHING TO THAT EFFECT THAT
THAT WAS MY UNDERSTANDING
OF WHAT'S BEING DISCUSSED.
ARE YOU COMFORTABLE WITH OR AM
I MISINTERPRETING?
NO ZERA WELL MY INITIAL THOUGHT
WAS THAT I HAD THOUGHT THAT
YOUR ABILITY TO PUT THIS ON THE
AGENDA WAS NOT GUARANTEED AND
THAT OUR SUPPORT OF IT BEING ON
THE AGENDA WOULD BE HELPFUL FOR
YOUR ADVOCATING TO GET IT ON
THE PIANO.
NOT TRUE.
YEAH, NO.
WE'LL BE ABLE TO GET AN AGENDA
AS IF WE JUST GET IT IN ON
TIME.
IS THERE ANOTHER WAY THAT YOU
FEEL THAT THE FARC COULD
POTENTIALLY SUPPORT THIS WAR?
I THINK THE WAY THAT WE'VE KNOW
THIS DISCUSSION TONIGHT IS
HELPFUL AND I UNDERSTAND THAT
PEOPLE WANT TO SEE IT FIRST.
I GET IT.
SO I THINK THIS IS THIS SUPPORT
.
SO I THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
GOOD.
GLAD WE COULD SUPPORT IT.
OH, IT'S NINE THIRTY.
WE'RE LIKE I'M SORRY IT'S JUST
FINE.
WE MUST BE HAVING A LOT OF FUN
.
I BELIEVE THAT WE GERN AND PUT
ANY LETTERS.
YES.
REACHED OVER TO THE NEXT
MEETING.
I THINK THAT THAT MAKES A GOOD
SECOND.
OK SO UNCLARITY CLARIFICATION
SARIEL SO WE ARE TABLING A
DISCUSSION OF POLICING POLICE
CHIEF SERGE THERE WAS A
DISCUSSION BY COUNCIL MEMBERS
REGARDING FOR FACIAL
RECOGNITION AND IN THE BOX.
RIGHT.
AND THEN WE ARE ALSO TABLING
THE SOCIAL WORK PARTNERSHIP
BUILDING A REFERENCE LIBRARY
COMMISSIONER OPEN POSITION
UPDATE COMPLETE PLANNING FOR
OUR STRATEGIC PLANNING EFFORTS
AS WELL AS TRESPASS FOLLOW UP
SO THOSE ITEMS WILL BE TABLED
FOR JANUARY TO ME I THINK
THAT'S TRUE.
I'VE GOT A NATION THANK YOU SO
MUCH MORE THAN ANYTHING ELSE.
OK, SO IN JANUARY WE ARE GOING
TO HAVE TWO PRESENTATIONS AND
TAKE ABOUT THEY MIGHT TAKE AN
HOUR TOGETHER OR A LITTLE BIT
LESS.
YOU MIGHT WANT TO READ THEM
PRESENTATIONS I SENT THEM TO
SEND THEM TO YOU AGAIN AND I'LL
SEND YOU ALSO THE ONES FROM THE
FROM THE OTHER CLASS SO THAT
YOU HAVE THAT TO LOOK FORWARD
TO.
OTHER THAN THAT I THINK WE CAN
HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN.
SOMEBODY DID OR YOU DID HAVE A
SECOND SITTING ON FAZER.
THANK YOU EVERYBODY.
THANK YOU.
SO DID YOU ENJOY ROBERTSPORT